.TH LATEX 6
.CT 1 writing_other
.SH NAME
latex, slitex, bibtex \- tex macro package and bibliographies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B latex
.IR file [.tex]
.PP
.B slitex
.IR file [.tex]
.PP
.PP
.B bibtex
.I auxname
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Latex
is a standard set of macros for
.IR tex (1)
inspired by, but not identical to, Scribe.
The command
.I "latex file"
processes
.IB file .tex
and produces
.IB file .dvi,
which should be printed with
.IR lp (1).
It will probably be necessary to run
.I latex
twice, to get all of the cross-referencing done properly.
.I Latex
writes cross-referencing information in
.IB file .aux.
.I Slitex
is version of 
.I latex
for making slides.
.PP
.I Bibtex
reads the top-level auxiliary
.RB ( .aux )
file output by
.I latex
and creates a bibliography
.RB ( .bbl )
file to be included in the 
source file.
The
.I auxname
on the command line should be given without an extension.
Each
.B \ecite
in the source file is looked up in bibliography files to gather
together those used in the document.
Then a bibliography style file is executed to write a
.B \ethebibliography
environment.
.PP
The source file should have defined the bibliography
.RB ( .bib )
files to search with the
.B \ebibliography
command, and the bibliography style
.RB ( .bst )
file to execute with the
.B \ebibliographystyle
command.
.I Bibtex
searches the
.B TEXINPUTS
path (see
.IR tex (1))
for
.BR .bst
files, and the
.B BIBINPUTS
path for
.B .bst
files.
The manual describes how to make bibliography files.
.PP
See files in
.L /usr/lib/tex/macros/doc
for more documentation.
In particular,
.L local.tex
is the
.I "Local Guide"
referred to in the manual.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Leslie Lamport,
.I LATEX: A Document Preparation System,
Addison Wesley, 1986
.br
Howard Trickey,
.I Latex User Guide,
this manual, Volume 2,
.br
.IR tex (1),
.IR lp (1)
