.ds a \fR*\fP
.ds s \fR\h'\w'*'u'\fP
.TH MCS 6
.CT 1 writing_troff
.SH NAME
mcs \- macros for formatting cover sheets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B troff -mcs
.I file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I mcs
package of
.IR troff (1)
macros generates cover sheets for Bell Labs documents.
The macros were not meant for human production.
Use 
.IR docgen (1)
to write them:
.IP
.L docgen -mcs
.PP
The
.I mcs
macros automatically load
the
.IR ms (6)
macros.
.PP
In the following description
macros marked 
.L *
are mandatory;
all others are optional.
Optional arguments are enclosed in square brackets.
The macros must be used in the
order presented:
.PP
.TF \*a\ .MT\ type\ software\ 
.TP
Request
Explanation
.PD
.TP
.BI "\*a .TI" " \fR[\fPdraft\fR]\fP"
Title text follows.
Unless there is an argument, the cover sheet will be shipped
automatically to the Bell Labs library ITDS.
Duplicate shipments are harmless.
.PD0
.TP
.BI "\*a .AH" " author loc dept ext rm e-mailaddre co"
.TP
.BI "\*s .AP" " name"
Responsible AT&T person
.TP
.B \*a .SA
Begin Abstract
.TP
.B \*a .SE
End Abstract
.TP
.BI "\*s .KW" " \fR[\fPk1 ... k9\fR]\fP"
Keywords
.TP
.BI "\*a .TY" " type software"
Memo
.IR type :
.L TM 
technical memorandum,
.L IM 
internal memorandum,
.L TC
technical correspondence; 
.IR software :
.L y
if memo is software related
.TP
.BI "\*a .NU" " org-date-seq filing_case work_project"
Document Number
.TP
.BI "\*s .ED" " doc_number"
Earlier document number.
.TP
.BI "\*a .MY" " \fR[\fPa1 ... a8 \fR]\fP"
Mercury Code, positional arguments,
.BR y - n ,
at most 3
.BR y :
1 Chemistry and Materials, 2 Communications, 3 Computing,
4 Electronics, 5 Life Science, 6 Mathematics and Statistics,
7 Physics, 8 Manufacturing
.TP
.BI "\*s .RL" " code"
.L y
release to any AT&T employee;
.L n
release only on approval of each request.
.TP
.BR "\*s .PR " [ BR ]
Proprietary Marking, default ATT-BL Proprietary, 
.L 0
unmarked,
.L BR
restricted
.TP
.B \*s .GS
Government Security
.TP
.B \*s .CO
Complete Copy Distribution List follows
.TP
.B \*s .CE
End distribution lists
.TP
.B \*s .CV
Cover Sheet Only Distribution List follows
.TP
.BI "\*a .SC" " pages"
Total
.I pages ;
do not include coversheet pages
(if old format of
.I pages
and
.I otherpages ,
the arguments are added).
.PP
To turn the paper into released paper format put a
.B .RP
before the title macro.
To make it into a CSTR add a
.B .TR
before the title and 
.B .AI
.B .MH
after the author macro.
.SH FILES
.F /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.cs
.br
.F /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.rscover
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR docgen (1), 
.IR ms (6), 
.IR sendcover (8)
