.TH PROOF 1 Blit
.SH NAME
proof \- troff output simulator for Blit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B proof
[
.B \-s|w ]
[
.B \-u ]
[
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Proof
reads
.IR troff (1)
intermediate language output from
.I file
and displays a simulation of the resulting pages on the screen.
Standard input is used if there is no file argument or the file name is `\-'.
The amount of text displayed depends on the mode
(which can be set from the command line).
.I Scaled
mode (\-s) means that each page of text
will compressed into the size of the layer.
.I Window
mode (\-w and the default) displays portions of the page at the correct size.
Fonts are loaded as required.
If the requested font has not yet
been scan-converted, the default Blit font is used and the font
name of the missing font is noted
in the file
.BR /usr/jerq/font/MISSING .
.PP
After a layer's worth of text is displayed,
.I proof
pauses for a command.
Typing carriage return turns the page,
.B q
quits buts leaves a
proof terminal (with its loaded fonts),
.B x
exits and restarts the regular terminal program,
.B p n
sets the next page to be printed to n,
.B s
sets scaled mode and
.B w
sets window mode.
The page number should be a number or \fB$\fP (the last page).
If the number is omitted, the next page is displayed.
If the number is out of range,
the first or last page is displayed.
Commands may come from either the host or the keyboard or be selected from
the button 3 menu.
.PP
There is a horizontal and vertical scroll bar manipulated as in
.IR mux (1).
The horizontal scrollbar indicates which portion of the 8\(12 inch horizontal
axis is visible.
Changing the horizontal scrollbar does not take effect until the next time text is
displayed.
The vertical scrollbar indicates which portion of the 11 inch vertical
axis is visible.
Changing the vertical scrollbar takes effect immediately.
.PP
The default exit from
.I proof
leaves a ``proof terminal'' program in the Blit which can be
used by later invocations of
.I proof
without reloading the program and fonts.
This program almost completely emulates the normal terminal and can
be distinguished by the dashed border around the layer.
More than one layer can run
.IR proof .
To simply download the terminal program, use `\f2proof /dev/null\fP'.
.PP
.I Proof
interprets lines, splines, circles, ellipses, and arcs directly
and without regard to the prevailing point size.
.PP
Typing `\f2proof \-u\fP'
restores the
proof terminal
to its normal state (equivalent to typing `x' above).
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/jerq/font/MISSING  'u
/usr/jerq/font/*		Blit fonts
.br
/usr/jerq/font/MISSING	list of referenced but unconverted fonts
.SH SEE ALSO
"A Typesetter-independent Troff", Brian W. Kernighan
.SH BUGS
There is a maximum number of fonts (currently 50) that can be loaded
at once.
Since each (size,typeface) tuple and some special characters
are a font, this limit can be exceeded in printing highly theoretical
papers.
.PP
Window mode can get confused if the troff ouput is not approximately
sorted in ascending \fIy\fP-order.
Most of the problems should go away if you \fIdsort\fP the troff ouput.
