.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.4, March 9, 1981
.tr @
.TH DICTADD 1
.SH NAME
dictadd \- add phrases to user's diction or sexist dictionary
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dictadd
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dictadd
adds words and/or phrases to the user's dictionaries
for use by the
.IR wwb "(1), " proofr "(1), " dictplus "(1), 
.IR " diction "(1), "
.RI "and " sexist (1)
programs.
.I Sexist
searches a text for sexist phrases,
while the other programs search a text for wordy or misused diction.
These programs allow the user to have  
dictionary files containing additional words and/or phrases
for the programs to locate or ignore.
.I Dictadd 
automatically sets up these dictionary files.
.PP
.I Dictadd
asks users whether they want to add words to
.I $HOME/lib/ddict, $HOME/lib/sexdict,
or some other file.
The results depend on the user's response,
as shown below.
.PP
.RS 2
.TP 21
@@@User's request
.IR "Dictadd's " action
.TP
.I $HOME/lib/ddict
adds words and/or phrases to the user's dictionary,
.I $HOME/lib/ddict.
This file is checked automatically by 
.I wwb
and
.I proofr
and can be specified for use by
.I dictplus
and
.I diction.
(See 
.IR diction (1).)
.TP
.I $HOME/lib/sexdict
adds words and/or phrases to the user's dictionary,
.I $HOME/lib/sexdict.
This file is checked automatically by
.I sexist.
.TP
.I filename
adds words to 
.I filename,
to be used with
.I diction, dictplus,
or
.I sexist.
.RE
.PP
In all cases,
.I dictadd
questions whether the user wants instructions,
and prompts with ">" for more words or phrases.
If the dictionary is not in existence when
.I dictadd 
is invoked, it is created.
If the dictionary already exists,
.I dictadd 
adds to it.
To quit, type "q" after the prompt.
.PP
Two options give information about the program:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
1. The sequence:
.PP
.RS 5
.B dictadd
(carriage return)
.br
(program asks if the user wants the words to be added to $HOME/lib/ddict)
.br
.B y
(user responds yes)
.br
(program asks if the user wants instructions)
.br
.I [~]phrase 1
(carriage return)
.br
.I [~]phrase 2
(carriage return)
.br
.I "[~]phrase n"
(carriage return)
.RE
.PP
will add phrases to 
.IR $HOME/lib/ddict .
Phrases to be ignored must be preceded by a tilde(~),
phrases to be located require no special symbol.
When finished, type "q" on a line by itself.
.SH SEE ALSO
diction(1),
dictplus(1),
proofr(1),
sexist(1),
suggest(1),
wwb(1).
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
