.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.2, March 3, 1981
.TH DICTPLUS 1 
.SH NAME
dictplus \- automatic combination of diction and suggest
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dictplus
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
][
.B \-f
pfile [
.B \-n
] ][ file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
.I Dictplus
automatically combines 
.I diction
and
.IR suggest .
Options are:
.RS 5
.TP 9
.BI \-f " pfile"
Use the user's phrase file,
.IR pfile ,
in addition to the default file of bad or wordy diction.
.IR Dictadd (1)
can be used
to set up this file.
.TP
.B \-n
Locate the phrases in
.I pfile
instead of the default phrase file.
.B \-n
cannot be used without
.B \-f
.IR pfile .
.RE
.I Dictplus
is one of the programs run under the 
.IR proofr (1)
and
.IR wwb (1)
commands.
.PP
.IR Dictadd (1)
adds words and/or phrases that are to be located or ignored by
.IR diction " or " dictplus
to the user's dictionary,
.I $HOME/lib/ddict .
.I Dictadd
gives instructions on the necessary format
for phrases to be located or ignored by
.IR diction " or " dictplus.
.I $HOME/lib/ddict
is only used by 
.I diction
and
.I dictplus
when it is specified by the
.B \-f
flag.
.IR Proofr (1)
checks 
.I $HOME/lib/ddict
automatically when it runs
.IR dictplus .
.PP
All programs can take the following two options
that give information on the programs:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
1. The command:
.PP
.RS 5
.B "dictplus -f patfile filename"
.RE
.PP
will print sentences from 
.I filename
that contain bad or wordy diction,
including or suppressing phrases as specified in
.IR patfile .
Suggested replacements for bad phrases will also be printed.
(The 
.I patfile
can be
.IR $HOME/lib/ddict .)
.SH FILES
.TP 21
/tmp/$$*
temporary files used by
.I dictplus
.SH "SEE ALSO"
diction(1),
suggest(1),
proofr(1),
wwb(1),
worduse(1),
sexist(1),
dictadd(1).
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
