.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.1, January 1981
.TH MKSTAND 1
.SH NAME
mkstand \- compile style standards for prose program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkstand
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
][
.B \-mm
|
.B \-ms
][
.B \-li
|
.B \+li
][
.B \-o
outfile ] file1 file2 ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mkstand
enables users to compile their own set of
.IR style (1)
standards for use by
.IR prose (1).
.I Prose
describes stylistic features of a text
and compares them to specified standards.
If a user or group, for example a writing group,
has many documents of a certain type
that they consider good,
those documents can be used as the basis for their own standards.
.I Mkstand
creates the standards,
which reflect the stylistic features
of the input documents.
Then the user can use
.I prose
to evaluate documents according to those standards.
.PP
.I Mkstand
runs
.I style
on a set of documents and computes the means
and standard deviations of certain
.I style 
statistics.
Then it puts these into 
.I outfile
.RI ( stand.out
is the default) in a format that
.I prose
can read.
Then if
.I prose
is run with the  command:
.PP
.RS 5
.BI "prose \-x " "outfile textfile" 
.RE
.PP
it compares
.I textfile
with the standards in
.IR outfile .
The command:
.PP
.RS 5
.BI "wwbstand \-x " "outfile"
.RE
.PP
will display the standards in a comprehensible form.
.PP
.I Mkstand
tries to produce valid standards by enforcing these requirements:
.RS 5
.TP
1.
Input files must be at least 90 sentences or 1900 words long.
.TP
2.
If an input file has 
.I style
scores that are more than 2 standard deviations from the mean,
scores for that file are excluded from the computation of the standards.
.RE
.PP
Although
.I mkstand
will compile standards for any number of documents (up to 75),
standards will be most reliable if at least 20 documents are used.
.PP
Because
.I mkstand
runs
.IR deroff (1)
on input files before computing scores,
formatting header files should be included as part of the input.
.PP
Four options affect
.IR deroff :
.RS 5
.TP
.B \-mm
eliminate
.IR mm (1)
macros, and associated text that is not part of sentences
(e.g. headings),
from the analysis.
This is the default.
.TP
.B \-ms
eliminate
.IR ms (1)
macros, and associated text that is not part of sentences,
from the analysis.
The
.B \-ms
flag overrides the default,
.BR \-mm .
.TP
.B \-li
eliminate list items,
as defined by 
.I mm
macros, from the analysis.
This is the default.
.TP
.B \+li
Include list items in the input text,
in the analysis.
This flag should be used if the texts contain lists of sentences,
but not if the texts contain many lists of non-sentences.
.RE
.PP
Other options are:
.RS 5
.TP 11
.BI \-o " outfile"
put standards in
.I outfile
instead of the default
.IR stand.out .
.RE
.PP
Two options give information about the program:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.PP
.I Mkstand
saves the
.I style
scores it used in computing the standards in a file named
.IR styl.scores .
Users should examine the scores in this file
for any scores that seem unusual or invalid.
If any are found,
.I mkstand
should be rerun without the unusual document.
.SH FILES
.TP 21
/tmp/$$stat.out
temporary file containing 
.I style
tables of input files
.TP
stand.out
default output file containing standards
.TP
styl.scores
output file containing
.I style
scores used in compiling standards
.SH SEE ALSO
prose(1),
style(1),
deroff(1),
wwbstand(1),
wwb(1).
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
