.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.1, January 1981
.TH PROOFR 1
.SH NAME
proofr \- automatic proofreader
.br
proofer \- alternative command-name for proofr
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B proofr
[
.B \-s
][
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
]
file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Proofr
is an automatic proofreading system
that runs modified versions of 5 programs:
.RS 5
.TP 14
.IR spellwwb (1)
- checks for misspelled words.
.TP
.IR punct (1)
- checks for rudimentary punctuation errors.
.TP
.IR double (1)
- searches for consecutive occurrences of the same word.
.TP
.IR dictplus (1)
- locates wordy and/or misused phrases and suggests alternatives.
.TP
.IR splitinf (1)
- searches for split infinitives.
.RE
.PP
.I Proofr
is one of the programs run under the
.IR wwb (1)
command.
.PP
Options are:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-s
produce a short summary version of
.IR proofr .
.RE
.PP
Two options give information about the program:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.SH NOTE
If the user has a file called
.IR $HOME/lib/ddict ,
.I proofr 
will run
.I dictplus
so that phrases in 
.I ddict
are located or ignored, as specified.
See diction(1), dictadd(1), dictplus(1) for more information.
.PP
If the user has a file called
.IR $HOME/lib/spelldict ,
.I proofr
will run
.I spellwwb
so that words in
.I spelldict
are not listed as errors.
See spellwwb(1) and spelladd(1) for more information.
.SH FILES
.TP 21
/tmp/$$*
temporary files
.SH SEE ALSO
spellwwb(1),
punct(1),
double(1),
splitinf(1),
diction(1),
wwb(1),
worduse(1),
spelltell(1),
deroff(1).
.SH BUGS
See other manual pages for bugs in individual programs.
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
