.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.2, February 24, 1981
.TH PROSE 1
.SH NAME
prose \- describe style characteristics of text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prose
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
]
[
.B \-tm
|
.B \-c
|
.B \-t
|
.B \-x
standards-file
][
.B \-mm
|
.B \-ms
] [
.B \-li
|
.B \+li
][
.B \-s
][
.B \-f
style-file | file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Prose
describes the writing style of a document
as determined by 
.IR style "(1),
but the output is in prose form.
The output describes readability, word and sentence lengths,
sentence structure and variation.
.PP
The program checks that a document's scores on certain 
.I style
variables fall within the average range for documents of a specified type.
Whenever the score for a variable is outside the average range,
a warning message is printed with information
about the variable,
and commands that can be run to get further information.
.PP
.I Prose
creates a file called
.I styl.tmp
that contains the table produced by
.IR style .
.PP
.I Prose
compares a document with standards
for one of several document types,
according to the following flags:
.RS 5
.TP 5
.B \-tm
Compare input text to good Bell Laboratories TM's.  (This is the default.)
.TP
.B \-c
Evaluate input text for craft suitability.
.TP
.B \-t
Compare input text with good training documents.
.TP
.BI \-x " standards-file"
Compare input text with standards contained in user-specified
.IR standards-file .
See
.IR mkstand (1)
to set up the 
.IR standards-file .
.RE
.PP
Because 
.I prose
runs
.IR deroff (1)
before looking at the text,
formatting header files should be included as part of the input.
.PP
Options affecting 
.IR deroff (1)
are:
.RS 5
.TP
.B \-mm
eliminate
.IR mm (1)
macros, and associated text that is not part of sentences
(e.g. headings),
from the analysis.
This is the default.
.TP
.B \-ms
eliminate
.IR ms (1)
macros, and associated text that is not part of sentences,
from the analysis.
The
.B \-ms
flag overrides the default,
.BR \-mm .
.TP
.B \-li
eliminate list items,
as defined by 
.I mm
macros, from the analysis.
This is the default.
.TP
.B \+li
Include list items in the input text,
in the analysis.
This flag should be used if the text contains lists of sentences,
but not if the text contains many lists of non-sentences.
.RE
.PP
Other options are:
.RS 5
.TP
.B \-s
Produce a short (10 line) summary version of
.IR prose .
.TP
.BI \-f " style-file"
If a file containing the
.I style
table exists as output from the 
.I style
program,
or from a previous 
.I prose
run,
it may be specified so that 
.I prose
need not run
.I style
again.
.I Styl.tmp
can be used as the
.IR style-file .
The input text file should not be used with the
.B \-f
flag.
.RE
.PP
Two options give information about the program:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.PP
.I Prose
is one of the programs run under the 
.IR wwb (1)
command.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command:
.PP
.RS 5
.B "prose \-t \+li filename"
.RE
.PP
will describe how the style characteristics of
.I filename
compare with standards for training documents.
Lists will be included in the analysis.
The
.IR style (1)
table will be left in the file
.IR styl.tmp .
.br
Then the command:
.PP
.RS 5
.B "prose \-x standards-file \-f styl.tmp"
.RE
.PP
will use the style statistics already gathered for
.IR filename ,
and describe how they compare with the user-defined
standards contained in 
.IR standards-file .
.SH FILES
.TP 21
styl.tmp
contains 
.I style 
table
.TP
wwb/lib/prosedoc
contains all standards used for comparison,
and stored
.I prose 
output text files
.SH SEE ALSO
style(1), wwb(1),
deroff(1),
match(1),
wwbstand(1),
mkstand(1),
worduse(1).
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
