.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.3, March 9, 1981
.TH SEXIST 1
.SH NAME
sexist \- print sexist terms and suggest alternatives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sexist
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
][
.B \-f
pfile ][file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sexist
locates and prints all sentences in a document
that contain possibly sexist words or phrases.
The word or phrase in each sentence is surrounded
with stars and brackets, e.g. *[girl]*.
The line numbers of the sentences are also printed.
.PP
Following that,
.I sexist
prints alternatives to the sexist phrases
found in the document.
The alternatives encourage:
.RS 3
.TP 3
1.
describing men and women in parallel terms.
For example, "men and girls" should probably be changed to "men and women."
.TP
2.
using neutral terms instead of sex-related terms.
For example "business executive"
could easily replace the stereotypic "businessman."
.TP
3.
using new, non-sexist Bell System job titles.
.RE
.PP
If the user has a file named
.IR $HOME/lib/sexdict ,
.I sexist
locates or ignores phrases contained in that file.
.IR Dictadd (1)
can be used to set up 
.I $HOME/lib/sexdict.
.I Dictadd
gives instructions on the necessary format for phrases
to be located or ignored by 
.I sexist.
.PP
Options are:
.RS 5
.TP 9
.BI \-f " pfile"
Use the user's phrase file,
.I pfile,
in addition to the default file of sexist phrases.
When the
.BI "\-f " pfile
option is used,
.I sexist
does not check
.I $HOME/lib/sexdict
for phrases.
The format instructions given by
.I dictadd
should be followed in setting up
.I pfile.
.RE
.PP
Two options give information about the program:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
1. The command:
.PP
.RS 5
.B "sexist -f patfile filename"
.RE
.PP
will print sentences from 
.I filename
that contain sexist words or phrases,
including or suppressing phrases as specified in
.IR patfile .
Suggested replacements for sexist phrases will also be printed.
.I Sexist
will not locate or ignore phrases in
.I $HOME/lib/sexdict
when the 
.B \-f 
option is used.
.SH FILES
.TP 21
/tmp/$$*
temporary files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dictadd(1)
.SH BUGS
Because
.I sexist
does not consider context,
it may bracket phrases that are used appropriately
and may recommend inappropriate alternatives.
It is up to the user to determine which changes should be made.
.PP
If formatting macros are included in the input text,
the beginning line number of a sentence containing a sexist phrase
may be a line containing a macro preceding the sentence.
.PP
.I Sexist
makes no attempt to segment text into sentences accurately,
e.g., it does not know any abbreviations.
.PP
.I Sexist
will not find the second of two consecutive sexist phrases,
nor will it find a sexist phrase at the end of a sentence.
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
