.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.1, January 1981
.TH SPELLTELL 1
.SH NAME
spelltell \- find the correct spelling of a word
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spelltell
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
]
[ wordpart |
.IR grep "(1)-regular-expression ... ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The purpose of 
.I spelltell
is to find the correct spelling of a word.
The input to the program can be either:
.PP
.RS 5
1. any contiguous letters in the word
that are known to be correct; or
.PP
.br
2. a 
.IR grep (1)
regular expression representing
a correctly spelled part of the word.
.RE
.PP
.I Spelltell
will print all words in its dictionary 
of commonly misspelled words that contain the input sequence.
.PP
When
.I spelltell
is typed on a line with the input word(s),
it will print the correct spelling(s) and then exit.
When 
.I spelltell 
is typed on a line by itself,
the program questions whether the user wants instructions,
and prompts with ">"
for word parts.
To quit, type "q" after the prompt.
.PP
Two options give information about the program:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
1. The command:
.PP
.RS 5
.B "spelltell rece"
.RE
.PP
will print:
.PP
.RS 5
precede
.br
preceding
.br
recede
.br
receiving
.br
etc.
.br
.RE
then exit.
.PP
2. The command:
.PP
.RS 5
.B spelltell
.br
.B ^proce
.RE
.PP
will print "proceed" and other words that begin with "proce,"
and will then prompt the user for another letter sequence
or regular expression.
.SH SEE ALSO
grep(1),
spellwwb(1),
proofr(1),
wwb(1).
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
