.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.1, January 1981
.TH SPELLWWB 1
.SH NAME
spellwwb \- find spelling errors
.br
spelladd \- add words to user spelling dictionary
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spellwwb
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
]
[
.B \-f
pfile ][
.B \-b
][
.B \-v
][
.B \-x
][file ...]
.PP
.B spelladd
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
]
word1 word2 ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Spellwwb
is a modified version of
.IR spell (1).
.I Spellwwb
allows the user to have his/her own file
of additional legitimate spellings, by default 
.IR $HOME/lib/spelldict .
Before reporting words not found in 
.IR spell 's
dictionary,
.I spellwwb
compares them with words in
the specified file
.RI ( $HOME/lib/spelldict " by default)."
.PP
When a text is run through
.I spellwwb
for the first time,
words such as names, acronyms, and unusual words
will be listed as errors.
Words like these that are spelled correctly
can then be added to 
.IR $HOME/lib/spelldict ,
and future
.I spellwwb
lists will contain only real spelling errors.
.PP
The following options are available:
.RS 5
.TP 9
.BI \-f " pfile"
Use 
.I pfile
instead of
.I $HOME/lib/spelldict
as the additional file of legitimate spellings.
.TP
.B \-b
Check British spelling.
.TP
.B \-v
Print all words not literally in the spelling list,
and show plausible derivations
from the words in the spelling list.
.TP
.B \-x
For each word, print every plausible stem with =.
.RE
.PP
Two options, which apply to both 
.I spellwwb
and
.IR spelladd ,
give information about the programs:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.PP
.I Spelladd
adds words, specified by the user, to
.IR $HOME/lib/spelldict ,
and maintains it in sorted order.
It can be used in two ways.
.RS 5
.TP 4
1.
Type:
.RS 5
.PP
.BR spelladd " word1 word2 word3 ..."
.PP
.RE
.TP
2.
NOTE:  Use this method when there are many words from one file
to be added to
.IR spelldict .
.sp
First, correct all real spelling errors found by
.IR spellwwb .
.sp
Then, type the following command to have all the remaining words
listed by
.I spell
(correct words) added to
.IR $HOME/lib/spelldict :
.PP
.BI "spell" " corrected-file " ">>" " $HOME/lib/spelldict" "; spelladd"
.RE
.RE
.PP
.I Spellwwb
is one of the programs run under the
.IR proofr (1)
and
.IR wwb (1)
commands.
.SH FILES
.TP 21
$HOME/lib/spelldict
produced by spelladd
.TP
/tmp/$$*
temporary files used by 
.I spellwwb
and 
.I spelladd
.SH SEE ALSO
proofr(1),
spell(1),
wwb(1),
deroff(1),
spelltell(1).
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
