.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.1, January 1981
.TH SYL 1
.SH NAME
syl \- syllable counter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B syl
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
]
[
.BR \- num
][ file ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Syl
counts the number of syllables in each word in the input text.
The input text can be a file, or words typed in at the terminal.
.I Syl
prints each unique word in the file preceded by its syllable count,
with the words ordered alphabetically within each syllable category.
That is, all one-syllable words are printed first, in alphabetical order,
followed by the two-syllable words, and so on.
.PP
One option is available:
.RS 5
.TP 9
.BI \- "num"
only print words that have at least
.I num
syllables, where
.I num
is an integer.
.RE
.PP
To use 
.I syl
interactively, type
.B syl
(carriage return),
then type in the word or words to be counted on the next line.
.I Syl
will print the syllable count for each word.
.PP
Two options give information about the program:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
The command:
.RS 5
.B "syl -5 filename"
.br
.RE
will print all the words in 
.I filename
that have five syllables or more.
.PP
The sequence:
.RS 5
.BR syl " (carriage return)"
.br
.B "Who needs a dictionary"
.br
.RE
will print the syllable counts for each word in the line.
When finished, type "control-d."
.SH BUGS
Because there are minor rules and exceptions in English,
not covered by the 
.I syl
program,
the program is about 98% accurate.
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
