.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.1, January 1981
.TH WORDUSE 1
.SH NAME
worduse \- print information about correct usage of words
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B worduse
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
]
[ word1 | "phrase 1" ... ]
.br
.PP
.B worduse
(carriage return)
.br
>word1 or phrase1
.br
(program response)
.br
>word2 or phrase2
.br
(program response)
.br
>q
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Worduse
searches a list of commonly confused and misused English words and phrases
for the user's word or phrase.
It describes the correct use of the word or phrase (if any),
and compares it to any similar words or phrases.
.PP
When
.I worduse
is typed on a line with the input word(s) or phrase(s),
it will print the explanation(s) and then exit.
In this mode phrases of more than one word
must be enclosed in double quotes.
.PP
When
.I worduse
is typed on a line by itself
it acts as an interactive program,
first printing brief instructions,
then prompting with ">" for more words or phrases.
To quit, type "q" after the prompt.
.PP
.I Worduse
may be used as a supplement to
.IR diction "(1), " dictplus "(1), or " proofr (1),
to learn why words were flagged by
.IR diction .
.PP
Two options give information about the program:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
1. The command:
.PP
.RS 5
.B "worduse affect"
.RE
.PP
will print:
.RS 5
.PP
AFFECT:  EFFECT:  Affect is normally only a verb;
effect is most often a noun...
.RE
.PP
2. The command:
.PP
.RS 5
.B
worduse "one of the"
.RE
.PP
will print:
.RS 5
.PP
ONE OF THE:  THE ONLY ONE OF THE:  "One of the"
is followed by a plural verb...
.RE
.PP
and then exit.
.PP
3.  The command:
.PP
.RS 5
.B worduse
.RE
.PP
will first print instructions, then
.PP
.RS 5
.RB > alright
.RE
.PP
will print:
.PP
.RS 5
ALL RIGHT:  ALRIGHT:  The only acceptable spelling is "all right."
.RE
.PP
and will then prompt the user for another word.
.PP
4.  The command:
.PP
.RS 5
.B worduse
.RE
.PP
will first print instructions, then
.PP
.RS 5
.RB > "one of the"
.RE
.PP
will print:
.PP
.RS 5
ONE OF THE:  THE ONLY ONE OF THE:  "One of the"
is followed by a plural verb...
.RE
.PP
and will then prompt the user for another word.
.SH FILES
.TP 21
wwb/lib/wordlist
contains the list of words and descriptions
.SH SEE ALSO
diction(1),
dictplus(1),
proofr(1),
wwb(1).
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
