.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.1, January 1981
.TH WWB 1
.SH NAME
wwb \- Writer's Workbench
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wwb
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
]
[
.B \-mm
|
.B \-ms
][
.B \-li
|
.B \+li
][
.B \-tm
|
.B \-t
|
.B \-c
|
.B \-x
standards-file ][
.B \-s
][file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Writer's Workbench is a set of programs designed
to aid writers and editors in editing documents.
The command
.I wwb
runs modified versions of 2 major programs,
which in turn run other programs.
.PP
The two major programs are:
.RS 5
.TP 10
.IR proofr (1)
- automatic proofreading system
that searches for spelling and punctuation errors,
consecutive occurrences of words, wordy or misused phrases,
and split infinitives.
.TP
.IR prose (1)
- describes the writing style of a document,
namely, readability and sentence characteristics,
and suggests improvements.
.RE
.PP
.I Prose
compares a document with standards for one of several document types,
according to the following flags:
.RS 5
.TP
.B \-tm
Compare input text to good Bell Laboratories Technical Memoranda.
(this is the default.)
.TP
.B \-t
Compare input text with good training documents.
.TP
.B \-c
Evaluate text for craft suitability.
.TP
.BI \-x " standards-file"
Compare input text with standards contained in user-specified
.IR standards-file .
See
.IR mkstand (1)
to set up the
.IR standards-file .
.RE
.PP
Other options are:
.RS 5
.TP
.B \-s
Produce short versions of
.IR "proofr " and " prose" .
.RE
.PP
Two options give information about the program:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.PP
.I Wwb
runs 
.IR deroff (1)
before looking at the text.
Four options affect
.IR deroff :
.RS 5
.TP
.B \-mm
eliminate
.IR mm (1)
macros, and associated text that is not part of sentences
(e.g. headings),
from the analysis.
This is the default.
.TP
.B \-ms
eliminate
.IR ms (1)
macros,
and associated text that is not part of sentences from the analysis.
The 
.B \-ms
flag overrides the default,
.BR \-mm .
.TP
.B \-li
eliminate list items, as defined by
.I mm
macros, from the analysis.  
This is the default.
.TP
.B \+li
Include list items in the analysis.
This flag should be used if the text contains lists of sentences,
but not if the text contains many lists of non-sentences.
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP 21
/tmp/$$*
temporary files
.SH SEE ALSO
prose(1),
proofr(1),
style(1),
spellwwb(1),
punct(1),
double(1),
diction(1),
splitinf(1),
deroff(1),
mkstand(1),
wwbstand(1),
spelltell(1),
worduse(1),
wwbinfo(1),
wwbhelp(1),
wwbmail(1).
.SH BUGS
Split infinitives in lists will not be found unless the 
+li option is used.
See other manual pages for bugs in individual commands.
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
