.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.2, March 9, 1981
.TH WWBHELP 1
.SH NAME
wwbhelp \- print Writer's Workbench commands for a topic
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wwbhelp
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
]
[ word or part of word ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Wwbhelp
searches a file of descriptive topics
covered by Writer's Workbench programs.
It prints the topical descriptors followed by commands
and options that can be used to get topically related information.
.PP
When
.I wwbhelp
is typed on a line with the input topic(s),
it will print the commands and options and then exit.
When
.I wwbhelp
is typed on a line by itself,
the program prompts with ">" for a topic.
To quit, type "q" after the prompt.
.PP
Two options give information about the program:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
The command:
.PP
.RS 5
.B "wwbhelp syl"
.RE
.PP
returns:
.PP
.RS 5
syllable counts for words....syl file
.br
syllables greater than N.....syl -N file
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP 21
/wwb/lib/helpfile
contains the list of topics and programs
.SH "SEE ALSO"
wwbinfo(1),
wwb(1).
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
