.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.2, February 13, 1981
.TH WWBMAIL 1
.SH NAME
wwbmail \- send mail to Writer's Workbench development group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wwbmail
[
.B \-p
]
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Wwbmail
sends a user's comments or requests for help
directly to the Writer's Workbench (WWB) development group.
.PP
The
.B \-p
option
allows the user to bypass the default (inter-system mail)
and go directly to the procedure for obtaining a paper copy
of the message.
.PP
The program prints instructions if the user needs them.
The instructions are written at a level
a casual user can understand.
.PP
If
.I wwbmail
knows of no electronic mail link between the user's system 
and that of the WWB group,
it gives instructions on how to print a pre-addressed paper copy
of the message to send via regular mail.
.PP
Two options give information about the program:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP 21
/tmp/$$*
temporary files
.TP
wwbmailtmp
output file containing address and message for paper copy
.SH SEE ALSO
wwbhelp(1),
wwbinfo(1),
wwb(1).
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
