.id NOTICE-NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE BELL SYS EXCEPT UNDER WRITTEN AGRMT
.id Writer's Workbench version 2.1, January 1981
.TH WWBSTAND 1
.SH NAME
wwbstand \- print standards used by prose(1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wwbstand
[
.B \-flags
][
.B \-ver
][
.B \-tm
|
.B \-t
|
.B \-c
|
.B \-x
standards-file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Wwbstand
reads the standards files that are used by 
.IR prose (1),
and prints the average ranges of 12 
.IR style (1)
scores for documents of certain kinds.
.I Prose
considers scores that fall within these ranges to be good.
.PP
Four options to
.I wwbstand
tell it what standards file to read:
.PP
.RS 5
.TP
.B \-tm
print average ranges of
.I style
scores for Bell Labs Technical Memoranda
judged good by department heads in the research area.
This is the default.
.TP
.B \-t
print average ranges of
.I style
scores for Bell Labs training documents from Department 45272.
.TP
.B \-c
print suggested ranges of 
.I style
scores for craft documents based on the research of E. Coke,
department 11222.
.TP
.BI \-x " standards-file"
print average ranges of 
.I style
scores contained in 
.IR standards-file .
The 
.I standards-file
can be made using
.IR mkstand (1).
.RE
.PP
Two options give information about the program:
.RS 5
.TP 7
.B \-flags
print the command synopsis line (see above)
showing command flags and options,
then exit.
.TP
.B \-ver
print the Writer's Workbench version number of the command, then exit.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
mkstand(1),
prose(1),
style(1),
wwb(1).
.SH SUPPORT
.IR "COMPONENT NAME:  " "Writer's Workbench"
.br
.IR "APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  " "Div 452"
.br
.IR "STATUS:  " Standard
.br
.IR "SUPPLIER:  " "Dept 45271"
.br
.IR "USER INTERFACE:  " "Stacey Keenan, Dept 45271, PY x3733"
.br
.IR "SUPPORT LEVEL: " "Class B - unqualified support other than Div 452"
