.TH MAIL 1
.CT 1 comm_users
.SH NAME
mail \(mi  send or receive mail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mail
[
.B -mpren
]
[
.B -f
.I file
]
.PP
.B mail
[
.B -#
]
.I person ...
.PP
.B mail
.PP
.B /usr/lib/upas/gone.fishing
[
.I mesg
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "Printing Mail"
When
.I persons
are not named, 
.I mail 
displays your incoming computer mail.
The options are:
.TP
.B -r
Print mail in first-in, first-out order.
.PD 0
.TP
.B -p
Print all the mail messages without prompting for commands.
.TP
.B -m
Use a manual style of interface, i.e., print no messages unless directed to.
.TP
.BI -f " file"
Use
.IR file ,
e.g.
.LR mbox ,
as if it were the mailbox.
.TP
.B -e
Check silently if there is anything in the mailbox;
return zero (true) if so, non-zero otherwise.
.TP
.B -n
Announce mail to the control terminal when it arrives.
Do not print mail now.
.PD
.PP
.I Mail
prints a user's mail, message by message,
prompting between messages.
After printing a prompt
.I mail
reads a line from the standard input
to direct disposition of the message.
Commands, as in
.IR ed (1),
are of the form
.RI `[ range ]
.I command
.RI [ arguments ]'.
The command is applied to each message in the (optional) range
addressed by message number and/or regular expressions
in the style of
.IR ed (1).
A regular expression in slashes searches among header
(postmark) lines; an expression in backslashes searches on
message content.
.TP 1.1i
.I address
to indicate a single message header
.PD0
.TP
.IB address , address
to indicate a range of contiguous message headers
.TP
.BI g/ expression /
to indicate all message headers matching the regular
.I expression.
.PD
.PP
The commands are:
.PD 0
.TP 1.1i
.B b
Print the headers for the next ten messages.
.TP
.B d
Mark message for deletion on exiting mail.
.TP
.B h
Print the disposition, size in characters, and header line of the message.
.TP
.BI m " person ...
Mail the message to the named
.I persons.
.TP
.BI M " person ...
Same as
.BI m
except that lines typed
on the terminal (terminated by
.B EOT or 
.LR . )
are prepended to the message.
.TP
.B p
Print message.	An interrupt stops the printing.
.TP
.B r
Reply to the sender of the message.
.TP
.B R
Like 
.L r
but with the message
appended to the reply.
.TP
.BI s " file"
(Save) Append the message to the named
.I file
.RL ( mbox
default, in 
.B HOME 
directory if known, see
.IR environ (5)).
.TP
.B q
Put undeleted mail back in the mailbox and stop.
.TP
EOT (control-D)
Same as 
.LR q .
.TP
.BI w " file
Same as
.B s
with the mail header line(s) stripped.
.TP
.B u
Remove mark for deletion.
.TP
.B x
Exit, without changing the mailbox file.
.TP
.B ?
Print a command summary.
.TP
.BI | command
Run the
.I command
with the message as standard input.
.TP
.BI ! command
Escape to the shell to do
.I command.
.TP
.B \&=
Print the number of the current message.
.PD
.ne 5
.SS "Sending Mail
.PP
When
.I persons
are named,
.I mail
takes the standard input up to an end-of-file,
or (if input is from a terminal) to a line consisting of a single
.L .
and adds it to each
.I person's
mailbox.
The message is automatically postmarked with the
sender's name and date.
Lines that look like postmarks are
prefixed with 
.LR > .
.PP
.I Person
is a login name on the local system or a
network name for a remote system; see
.IR mail (6).
.PP
Option
.B -#
does not send mail, but reports instead
how the mail would be sent: the sender,
the next machine to handle the mail, and the recipient's
address relative to that machine.
The report reflects address translation; see
.IR mail (6)
and
.IR upas (8).
.PP
.IR Sh (1)
and
.IR vismon (9.1)
have mechanisms for timely notification of incoming mail.
.SS Mailboxes
Each user
owns a mailbox for incoming mail, normally
.BI /usr/spool/mail/ person.
.I Mail
creates mailboxes as necessary, and never removes them.
Mailboxes are created readable but not writable by others.
For more privacy, a mailbox's owner may make it unreadable; see
.IR chmod (2).
.PP
If a mailbox contains the sole line
.IP
.B Forward to
.I name,
.LP
mail for that mailbox is sent instead to
.I name.
.I Name
may be a list of names.
If the mailbox contains 
.IP
.B Pipe to
.I command
.LP
the mail is sent to the standard input of
.I command
instead of being appended to the mailbox.
The command is run with the userid and
groupid of the mailbox's owner.
(On System V machines, the set userid bit must be set.)
.PP
.I Mail
checks centralized forwarding lists before looking in mailboxes.
If you have accounts on many machines, but wish to receive
mail on only one, it is usually easier to register
in forwarding lists than to install 
.L Forward to
in many mailboxes; see
.IR upas (8).
.PP
To use 
.I mail
as an answering machine while you are away,
replace the contents of your mailbox
with a single line like
.IP
.BI "Pipe to /usr/lib/upas/gone.fishing /usr/" you / mesg
.LP
The
.I mesg
file will be sent (just once) to everyone who
sends you mail; arriving messages will be collected in
.B gone.mail
in your home directory.
If you do not name a
.I mesg
file,
.FR /usr/lib/upas/gone.msg 
will be used by default.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/spool/mail/mail.log
.TP
.F /usr/spool/mail/mail.log
mail log file
.TP
.F /usr/spool/mail/*
mailboxes
.TP
.F /etc/passwd
to identify sender and locate persons
.TP
.F $HOME/mbox
saved mail
.TP
.F $HOME/dead.letter
unmailable text
.TP
.F /usr/lib/upas/edmail
the program for editing mail
.TP
.F /usr/lib/upas/send
the program for sending mail
.TP
.F /bin/rmail
a link to
.FR /bin/mail ,
used to receive remote mail
.TP
.F /usr/lib/upas/gone.msg
.TP
.F $HOME/gone.mail
.TP
.F $HOME/gone.addrs
list of senders answered by
.I gone.fishing
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR mailx (1),
.IR write (1), 
.IR vismon (9.1), 
.IR uucp (1), 
.IR mail (6), 
.IR upas (8),
.IR smtp (8)
.SH BUGS
Long headers are truncated for header search.
