.TH MOUNT 8
.CT 1 sa_nonmortals
.SH NAME
mount, umount \- mount and dismount file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/mount
[
.I special name
[
.I fstype
[
.I flags
] ] ]
.PP
.B /etc/mount
.B -a
.PP
.B /etc/mount
[
.I special name
[
.B -r
]
]
.PP
.B /etc/umount
.I name
.PP
.B /etc/umount
.B -a
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mount
announces to the system that a removable file system
of type
.I fstype
is present on the file
.I special.
The file
.I name
must exist already;
it becomes the name of the newly mounted root.
.I Fstype
and
.I flags
are integers;
if omitted,
they default to 0.
Type 0
is an ordinary disk file system.
Other types
and possible flag values
are listed in
.IR fmount (2).
.PP
The shorthand
.B "mount special file -r"
is equivalent to
.BR "mount special file 0 1" :
mount an ordinary file system
read-only.
.PP
If option
.B -a
is present,
.I mount
attempts to mount, in order, every file system listed in
.IR fstab (5).
.PP
.I Umount
announces to the system that the file system mounted on file 
.I name
is to be removed.
.PP
These commands
maintain a table of mounted file systems in
.FR /etc/mtab ;
see
.IR fstab (5).
If invoked without an argument,
.I mount
prints the table.
If option
.B -a
is present,
.I umount
attempts to remove, in reverse order, each file system listed in
.IR mtab .
.PP
Physically write-protected and magnetic tape file
systems must be mounted read-only
or errors will occur when access times are updated,
even if no explicit write is attempted.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B "/etc/mount /dev/ra02 /usr"
Mount the file system on disk
.L /dev/ra02
on directory
.LR /usr .
.TP
.B "/etc/mount /dev/null /proc 2"	
Mount the process file system.
.SH FILES
.TF /etc/fstab
.TP
.F /etc/mtab
mount table
.TP
.F /etc/fstab
file system table
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR fmount (2),
.IR fstab (5), 
.IR netfs (8)
.SH BUGS
Mounting file systems full of garbage may crash the system.
.br
Mounting a root directory on a non-directory
makes some apparently good pathnames invalid.
