.TH SA 8
.CT 1 sa_nonmortals
.SH NAME
sa, accton \- system accounting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/sa
[
.B -abcdDfgijkKlnrstuv
]
[
.B -e prefix
]
[
.I file
]
.PP
.B /etc/accton
[
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
With an argument naming an existing
.I file,
.I accton
causes system accounting information for
every process executed to be placed at the end of the file.
If no argument is given, accounting is turned off.
.PP
.I Sa
reports on, cleans up, and generally maintains
accounting files.
.PP
.I Sa
is able to condense
the information in
.F /usr/adm/acct
into a summary file
.F /usr/adm/savacct
which contains a count of the
number of times each command was called and the time resources
consumed.
This condensation is desirable because on a large system
.F /usr/adm/acct
can grow by 10000 blocks per day.
The summary file is normally read before the accounting file,
so the reports include all available information.
.PP
If a file name is given as the last argument,
that file will be treated
as the accounting file;
.F /usr/adm/acct
is the default.
.PP
Output fields are labeled:
.L cpu
for the sum of user and system times
(in minutes),
.L re
for real time (also in minutes),
.L k
for cpu-time averaged core usage (in 1K units),
.L avio
for average number of IO operations per execution.
With options fields labelled
.L tio
for total IO operations,
.L k*sec
for cpu storage integral (kilo-core seconds), 
.L u
and 
.L s
for user and system cpu time alone (both in minutes) will sometimes
appear.
.PP
There are zillions of options:
.TP
.B a
Place all command names containing unprintable characters
and those used only once under the name
.LR ***other .
.TP
.B b
Sort output by sum of user and system time divided by number of
calls.
Default sort is by sum of user and system times.
.TP
.B c
Besides total user, system, and real time for each command print percentage
of total time over all commands.
.TP
.B d
Sort by average number of disk IO operations.
.TP
.B D
Sort by total number of disk IO operations.
.TP
.B e
Set the prefix for accounting file names to the next argument
.RB ( /usr/adm/
is the default).
.TP
.B f
Assume answer
.L y
for option
.BR -v .
.TP
.B g
Ignore
.BR /usr/adm/acct .
Useful for processing only
.L savacct
and
.LR usracct .
.TP
.B i
Don't read in summary file.
.TP
.B j
Instead of total minutes time for each category,
give seconds per call.
.TP
.B k
Sort by cpu-time average memory usage.
.TP
.B K
Print and sort by cpu-storage integral.
.TP
.B l
Separate system and user time; normally they are combined.
.TP
.B m
(money) Print number of processes and number of CPU minutes for each user.
.TP
.B n
Sort by number of calls.
.TP
.B r
Reverse order of sort.
.TP
.B s
Merge accounting file into summary file
.F /usr/adm/savacct
when done.
.TP
.B t
For each command report ratio of real time to the sum of user and
system times.
.TP
.B u
Superseding all other flags,
print for each command in the accounting file the
userid and command name.
.TP
.B v
Followed by a number
.I n,
types the name of
each command used
.I n
times or fewer.
Await a reply from the terminal;
if it begins with 
.LR y ,
add the command to
the category
.LR **junk** .
This is used to strip out garbage.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/adm/usracct
.TP
.F /usr/adm/acct
raw accounting
.TP
.F /usr/adm/savacct
summary
.TP
.F /usr/adm/usracct
per-user summary
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR ac (8), 
.IR acct (2)
.SH BUGS
.I Sa
needs more options.
