.TH SCSISH 8
.CT 1 sa_nonmortals
.SH NAME
scsish \- SCSI shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/worm/scsish
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Scsish
is a command interpreter for SCSI commands executed through
.B /dev/scsi
(see
.IR scsi (4)).
Many commands are applicable to more or less all SCSI devices;
some are specific to the SONY WDA-3000-10 optical disk jukebox.
Any details not found here are in the manual for the jukebox.
.PP
Typically commands are sent to a particular drive
(a number between 0 and 7 inclusive)
on a particular device
(normally a number between 0 and 5 inclusive).
Most commands take a drive parameter (a number).
The device number is set by the
.B id
command.
.PP
Occasionally, commands fail and will print the result of a
.B sense
command which is normally needed to clear the error status.
.PP
All input is in lower case and keywords and numbers are separated by white space.
Commands are separated by a newline or semicolon.
.SS "General SCSI Commands"
.TF "disk eject drive"
.TP
.BI capacity " drive"
Report the capacity of
.I drive
as
.BR "nblocks x blocksize" .
.TP
.BI "disk eject" " drive"
Eject the disk
(or other removable medium)
from
.IR drive .
.TP
.BI echo " number"
Print
.I number
on standard output.
.TP
.B help
Print a summary of the available commands.
.TP
.BI id " n"
Set the destination SCSI bus device number.
By default, it is 2 which is the normal device number for the SONY jukebox.
.TP
.BI inquiry " drive"
Print various bits of status about
.IR drive .
For example,
.IP
.EX
drive 2,0: WORM device, '    SONY     WDA-3000-10 2.D'
	disk,write protect,,,ready (0x9)
.EE
.IP
If
.I drive
is omitted, an inquiry is performed for drives 0 through 7.
.TP
.BI read " drive block"
Print the contents of the 1024 byte block at
.I block
on
.I drive
in hexadecimal.
.TP
.BI "read id" " drive"
Print the string starting at byte 42 in block 1 on
.IR drive .
This corresponds to the initial
.I vol_id
for
.IR worm (8)
disks.
.TP
.B reset
Attempt to reset the SCSI interface.
.TP
.BI sense " drive"
Print the sense data for
.IR drive .
Some of the interpretations of the sense bytes are idiosyncratic to SONY.
.TP
.BI "ext sense" " drive"
Print the extended sense data for
.IR drive .
Most of the interpretations of the extended sense bytes are idiosyncratic to SONY.
.TP
.BI sleep " n"
Sleep for
.I n
seconds.
.TP
.BI start " drive"
Start
.I drive
spinning.
.TP
.BI stop " drive"
Stop
.IR drive .
.TP
.BI test " drive"
Test unit ready for
.IR drive .
.PD
.SS "SONY Commands"
.TP
.BI alternate " drive"
Print the replacement block tables from the disk.
.TP
.BI media " drive blkno nblks"
Print a summary of the media quality in
.I drive
for the
.I nblks
blocks starting at block number
.IR blkno .
For example, a dirty disk can yield
.IP
.EX
drive 0: media check for 1000 blocks [0-999], upper drive
849 good, 1 unwritten, 147 <50% burst, 3 >96% burst, 
.EE
.IP
Please report any instances of messages including
.B "rare error"
to the jukebox guru.
.PD
.TP
.BI "ext media" " drive blkno nblks"
A verbose form of the
.B media
command.
.PD
.SS "Jukebox Commands"
.TP
.B config
Print the configuration data for the jukebox.
.TP
.BI "disk release" " drive shelf side"
Release the disk from
.I drive
to
.IR shelf .
The value of
.I side
indicates whether it should be inverted on the way
.RB ( b )
or not
.RB ( a ).
If
.I shelf
and
.I side
are absent,
the disk is restored to its former shelf.
.PD0
.TP
.BI "disk set" " shelf side drive"
Put the disk from
.I shelf
into
.IR drive .
The value of
.I side
indicates whether it should be inverted on the way
.RB ( b )
or not
.RB ( a ).
.TP
.BI internal " n"
Execute various internal reports and diagnostics.
.B internal
with no argument will print a list of available diagnostics.
.TP
.BI "status" " drive"
Print the status for
.IR drive .
An absent
.I drive
is taken as 0.
As the status is for the jukebox as a whole,
the value of
.I drive
doesn't matter.
A sample status output shows the jukebox hides the mapping
of logical drive number and actual drive:
.IP
.EX
drive 0: ready,disk in LUN,power on,disk in drive 0, return shelf 2
drive 1: not ready,no disk in LUN,power on,disk in shelf 0
drive 2: not ready,no disk in LUN,power on,disk in shelf 0
drive 3: ready,disk in LUN,power on,disk in drive 1, return shelf 0
drive 4: not ready,no disk in LUN,power on,disk in shelf 0
drive 5: not ready,no disk in LUN,power on,disk in shelf 0
drive 6: not ready,no disk in LUN,power on,disk in shelf 0
drive 7: not ready,no disk in LUN,power on,disk in shelf 0
0: no disk
1: no disk
2: disk,
I/O shelf: no disk
carrier: disk shelf=0
upper drive: disk, LUN=0
lower drive: disk, LUN=3
.EE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR worm (8), 
.IR scsi (4)
