.TH SHIP 8
.CT 1 comm_mach sa_nonmortals
.SH NAME
ship, shipstat \(mi automatic software distribution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ship
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B shipstat
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ship
distributes the named files to other computers, where
the files are installed under the same names.
Shipping privileges are determined
by the network manager on the receiving machine;
see
.IR svcmgr (8).
.PP
Destinations are taken from environment variable
.BR dest ,
or from
.F /usr/lib/asd/dest/default
if
.B dest
is empty.
If a destination is the name of a file in
.FR /usr/lib/asd/dest ,
it is replaced by the contents of that file,
each word of which is then examined in the same way.
Otherwise the destination is a network address.
The sending machine is omitted unless explicitly named in
the environment variable,
or unless option
.B -f
is present or environment variable
.B force
has a non-empty value.
.PP
.I Ship
uses
.I inspkg
and 
.IR mkpkg (8)
to do its work.
Links among the named files are imitated
on the receiving computer, and
named files that do not exist on the sending
computer are deleted on the receiving computer.
Other options are the same as those of
.IR mkpkg :
.PP
.TP \w'\-X file 'u
.B -v
Emit running commentary on the standard error file.
.TP
.BI -D path1 = path2
Pretend that any
.I file
name that begins with
.I path1
really begins with
.IR path2 .
Relative pathnames are extended to full pathnames before comparison.
.TP
.BI -x command
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI -X file
Include in the package instructions to execute the shell
.I command
or run the shell script
.I file
after all files have been installed.
Only one of these options may occur.
The
.I file 
name in
.BR -X
is affected by
.BR -D .
.PP
Shipments are generally acknowledged by mail after each destination
has been tried at least once;
see
.IR asd (8)
for details.
.PP
.I Shipstat
reports the status of all its caller's
incomplete shipments,
with the most recent first.
.SH FILES
.TF/usr/lib/asd/dest/default
.TP
.F /usr/lib/asd/dest/*
distribution lists
.TP
.F
/usr/lib/asd/dest/default
default distribution list
.TP
.BI /usr/spool/asd/ logname
outgoing spool directories
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR mkpkg (8),
.IR asd (8),
.IR svcmgr (8)
.SH BUGS
The
.B -f
option, if given, must be the first option and
must not be combined with any other.
