.TH UUCLEANUP 8
.CT 1 sa_auto
.SH NAME
uucleanup \- uucp spool directory clean-up
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/uucp/uucleanup
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uucleanup\^
removes old files from the
.I uucp
spool directories.
It is typically called by
.FR /usr/lib/uucp/uudemon.cleanu ,
which may be run regularly by
.IR cron (8).
The options are:
.TF -mstring
.TP
.BI -C days\^
Remove
.B C.
(control) files that are at least
.I days
old,
and send a message to the user who queued the job.
.PD
.TP
.BI -D days\^
Remove
.B D.
(data) files that are at least
.I days
old.
If the data file appears to contain a mail message,
an attempt will be made to deliver it;
if it contains a netnews article
from another system,
it will be handed to
.IR rnews .
.TP
.BI -W days\^
Send a warning to the user who queued any jobs
.RB ( C.
files)
at least
.I days
old.
If one of the data files for the job appears to be a mail message,
the message is included in the warning.
.TP
.BI -X days\^
Remove any
.B X.
(remote execution) files at least
.I days
old.
.TP
.BI -m string\^
Include
.I string
in warning messages.
The default is
`See your local administrator to locate the problem.'
.TP
.BI -o days\^
Remove any other files
that are at least
.I days
old.
.TP
.BI -s system\^
Examine only files associated with
.IR system .
.PP
By default,
.B C.
files generate a warning when
one day old,
and are removed after 7 days;
.B D.
files are removed after 7 days;
and
.B X.
and other files
are removed after 2 days.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/spool/uucp
.TP
.F /usr/lib/uucp
directory with commands used by
.I uucleanup
.TP
.F /usr/spool/uucp
spool directory
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR uucp (1)
.br
D. A. Nowitz,
`UUCP Administration',
this manual, Volume 2
