.TH BOGGLE 6
.CT 1 games
.SH NAME
boggle, hangman, scrabble \- word games
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/boggle
[
.B +
]
[
.B ++
]
[
.I word word word word
]
.PP
.B /usr/games/scrabble
.PP
.B /usr/games/hangman
[
.I arg
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Boggle
provides practice for the Parker Brothers game.
If invoked with 4 arguments of 4
letters each,
the program forms the
obvious Boggle grid and lists all the words from
.B /usr/dict/words
found
therein.
If invoked without arguments, it will generate
a board, let you enter words for 3 minutes, and then tell
how well you did relative to
.BR /usr/dict/words .
Words
may be formed from any sequence of 3 or more adjacent letters in the
grid.
Letters may join horizontally, vertically, or diagonally.
However, no position in the grid may be used more than once within any
one word.
In competitive play amongst humans, each player is given
credit for those of his words which no other player has found.
.PP
Enter your words separated by spaces, tabs,
or newlines.
A bell will ring when there is 2:00, 1:00, 0:10, 0:02,
0:01, and 0:00 time left.
You may complete any word started before the
expiration of time.
You can surrender before time is up by hitting
interrupt.
While entering words, your erase character is only effective
within the current word and your line kill character is ignored.
.PP
Option
.B +
removes the restriction that positions
can only be used once in each word.
Option
.B ++
causes a position to
be considered adjacent to itself as well as to its (at most) 8 neighbors.
.PP
.I Scrabble
plays the Selchow and Righter game on a  cursor-addressed
terminal against a single opponent.
To place a letter first move the cursor by typing 2, 4, 6, 8 for down, left, right,
up respectively (1, 3, 7, 9 are diagonals) then type the letter in place.
Type 
.L ?
to cycle through a set of helpful tables.
.PP
.I Hangman
chooses a word at least seven letters
long from a dictionary.
You then guess letters one at a time.
.PP
The optional argument
.I arg
names an alternate dictionary.
The special name
.L \-a
gets a particular very large
dictionary.
.SH FILES
.TP
.F /usr/dict/words
.TP
.F /usr/dict/web2
alternate dictionary for hangman
.SH BUGS
.I Hangman
runs hyphenated compounds together.
.br
.I Scrabble
rubs in its
brilliance with merciless play and an inhumane interface.
