.TH CAN 1 
.CT 1 writing_output comm_dev
.SH NAME
can, bcan, dcan, tcan, xcan \- interface to Canon laser-printer spooler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B can
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B bcan
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B dcan
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B tcan
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B xcan
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
These commands print 
.I files
(standard input by default) on Canon laser printers.
Four commands, all special cases of the generic
.I xcan,
handle particular kinds of data files:
.TP
.I can
ASCII text
.TP
.I bcan
bitmap images created by 
.IR blitblt (9.1)
.TP
.I dcan
output from
.IR troff (1)
.TP
.I tcan
output for a Tektronix 4014 terminal, as produced by
.IR plot (1)
.PP
The destination printer is determined in the following ways,
listed in order of decreasing precedence.
.IP
option
.B -d
.I dest
.br
environment variable
.L CANDEST
.br
printer named in file
.F /etc/candest
.LP
Printers at the mother site are:
.RS
.TP
.B 3
3rd floor, end of 9S corridor (seki)
.PD0
.TP
.B 4
4th floor, stair 8 (swift)
.TP
.B 8
3rd floor, stair 8 (tukey)
.TP
.B 9
4th floor, stair 9 (wild)
.TP
.B j
jones room (jones)
.TP
.B u
unix room (panther)
.TP
.BI / name
printer attached to machine with Datakit destination 
.I name
.RE
.PD
.PP
Options:
.PP
.TP
.BI -d " dest"
Select the destination printer.
.TP
.BI -f " font"
Set the font (default
.LR CW.11 )
for
.IR can ;
see 
.IR font (7).
.TP
.B -L
(landscape) Rotate
.I bcan 
pages 90 degrees.
.TP
.BI -l " n"
Set number of lines per page for
.I can
(default 66).
.TP
.BI -m " n"
Set 
.I bcan
magnification
(default 2).
.TP
.B -n
Spool only, input has already been formatted by a remote
.IR xcan .
.TP
.BI -o " list"
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in
the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.
A range
.IB n - m
means pages
.I n
through
.IR m ;
a range
.BI - b
means from the beginning to page
.IR n ;
a range
.IB n -
means from page
.I n
to the end. 
.B -o
implies
.BR -r .
.TP
.B -r
print
pages in reverse order
(default for 
.IR can " and " dcan ).
.TP
.B -sb
.RI "make " xcan " expect " bcan " input;"
.BR -sb " implies defaults of " -x176 " and " -y96 .
.TP
.B -sc
.RI "make " xcan " expect " can " input;"
.BR -sc " does not imply " -r .
.TP
.B -sd
.RI "make " xcan " expect " dcan " input;"
.BR -sd " does not imply " -r .
.TP
.B -st
.RI "make " xcan " expect " tcan " input."
.TP
.BI -t " n"
.I tcan 
scale factor is
.RI ( n /100)/( n %100).
The default is 813, i.e., 13 tekpoints become 8 dots on the laser printer.
.TP
.BI -u " user"
set the name which appears on the banner page;
default is login name.
.TP
.BI -x " n"
set the horizontal
offset of the print image, measured in dots (default 48).
There are 240 dots to the inch.
.TP
.BI -y " n"
set the vertical
offset of the print image (default 0),
except in
.I tcan,
where this option specifies
.I n
extra tekpoints vertically.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/spool/jpd
.TP
.F /etc/candest
default destination
.PD0
.TP
.F /usr/lib/font/devi10
font directory
.TP
.F /usr/spool/jpd
spool directory
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR pr (1), 
.IR lpr (1), 
.IR blitblt (9.1), 
.IR plot (1), 
.IR font (7)
.SH BUGS
The `landscape' option is supported only by
.IR bcan ;
.BR -o " and " -r
are supported only by
.I can
and
.I dcan.
.br
There ought to be a way to determine the service class from the input data.
