.TH CHARGE 1 SHARE
.SH NAME
charge, charges \- change (show) charges for share system usage calculations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B charge
[\-flags]
.br
.B charges
[\-flags]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Charge
will change the costs associated with the usage calculations for the
.IR "Share Scheduler" .
The flag \fB\-C\fR, if used, should be mentioned first
to cause
.I charge
to read the
existing values,
instead of working on default values.
The alternate name is used to show the charges currently in operation,
for which the default assumes \fB\-C\fR, unless the flag \fB\-\fP is used.
The optional flags are as follows:-
.TP "\w'-NmaxnormuXX'u"
.BI -
Causes
.I charges
to show the default settings for the charging parameters.
.TP
.BI -C
Causes
.I charge
to read in the current values,
which it will use instead of the defaults.
\fBMust be first flag if used\fP.
.TP
.BI -D h1,h2
Will set the decay rate for process priorities with normal \fInice\fP
so that they will decay to half their initial value in
.I h1
seconds,
and set the decay rate for process priorities with maximum \fInice\fP
so that they will decay to half their initial value in
.I h2
seconds.
.TP
.BI -E half-life
Will set the decay rate for users' process
.I rates
so that they will decay to half their initial value in
.I half-life
seconds.
.TP
.BI -F flags
Sets various global scheduling flags \(em see
.IR share (5)
for details.
.I Flags
are assumed to be in octal.
.TP
.BI -G maxgroups
Sets the maximum depth for the scheduling tree.
.TP
.BI -K half-life [s]
Will set the decay rate for users' usages
so that they will decay to half their initial value in
.I half-life
hours.
If the
.I half-life
is followed by the character \fBs\fP,
then the number will be interpreted as seconds.
.TP
.BI -N maxnormu
Upper bound on 
.I "normalised usage"
used in process priority calculations.
The number can be added to a running process's priority every clock tick,
so it should be small enough not to overrun the value
.I maxupri
in too short a time interval
(ie: it should be less than \fI(maxupri*(1\-pri_decay)) / \s-1HZ\s0\fP,
see the output of \fIcharges -v\fP for the low priority value of \fIpri_decay\fP.)
.TP
.BI -P maxpri
Absolute upper bound for a process's priority.
(Something less than the largest non-negative integer.)
.TP
.BI -Q maxupri
Upper bound for normal processes' priorities.
.I Idle
processes run with priorities in the range
.IB maxupri < pri < maxpri .
.TP
.BI -R delta
Sets the
.I run-rate
for the share scheduler in seconds.
.TP
.BI -S maxusers
Sets the maximum number of users and groups that can be active.
Note that this cannot exceed the maximum configured in the kernel.
.TP
.BI -U maxusage
Upper bound for ``reasonable'' usages.
Users with usages larger than this are grouped together and given a
.I "normalised usage"
which prevents them from interfering with ``normal'' users.
.TP
.BI -X maxushare
If the
.SM LIMSHARE
scheduling flag is on,
then this parameter limits the maximum effective share an
individual user can have to
.I maxushare
times their allocated share.
.TP
.BI -Y mingshare
If the
.SM ADJGROUPS
scheduling flag is on,
and any group is getting less than
.I mingshare
times its allocated share,
the costs incurred by the group members will be adjusted down to compensate.
(Does not affect the long-term charges.)
.TP
.BI -b bio
The charge for a disk block I/O operation.
.TP
.BI -m click
The charge for a
.IR "memory tick" .
.TP
.BI -s syscall
The charge for a system call.
.TP
.BI -t tick
The charge for a CPU tick.
.TP
.BI -v
Show scheduling feed-back parameters
.RI ( charges " only)."
.TP
.BI -y tio
The charge for a stream I/O operation.
(This is really dependent on the number of kernel buffer operations,
so a 
.I "write(1)"
will cost the same as a 
.I "write(64)"
to an ordinary stream,
or a 
.I "write(1024)"
to a pipe.)
.TP
.IR percent
The percentage change to apply to all the charges.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B charge 10
.RS
will change the costs to 10% of the default.
.RE
.B charges 
.RS
show the current charges.
.RE
.B "charges \-"
.RS
show the default settings.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/usr/include/sys/charges.hXX'u"
.IR /usr/include/sys/charges.h
The default values in the kernel.
.TP
.IR /usr/include/sys/share.h
Definition of charges structure.
.TP
.IR share (5)
A description of the 
.IR "Share Scheduler" .
.PD
.SH BUGS
The percent flag will also affect any new constants,
so bias them accordingly.
.PP
.I Charges
works out the current charging percentage
by using the difference between the default cost for ``ticks''
and the current setting.
.PP
The defaults are hardly ever relevant.
