.TH LIM 1 SHARE
.SH NAME
lim \- change shares for users
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBlim\fP limit{+|\-|=}string[,string...][;...]  \-|name|uid-uid|uid\fB..\fP ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lim
changes shares file records for several users,
a range of uids
or a list from standard input.
The changeable limits are designated by their names as defined
in the files
.IR <sys/lnode.h> ,
and
.I <shares.h>
as follows:
.TP "\w'lastusedXXXXXX'u"
.B charge
Long term account charge.
.TP
.B flags
The only specifiable flag is:-
.IR notshared .
Only the first few letters needed to ensure a unique match are required.
.TP
.B lastused
Date account last used.
.TP
.B sgroup
Scheduling group for the account.
.TP
.B shares
Allocated shares.
.TP
.B usage
Usage for scheduling.
.PP
The next character designates that the limit is to be
incremented (\c
\fB+\fR\c
), decremented (\c
\fB\-\fR\c
), or set (\c
\fB=\fR\c
).
.PP
The third group of characters is interpreted as a number,
a date (if the string contains a `/'),
or as a string
(or as a comma-separated list)
depending on the type of limit being changed.
However, if the first character is '\fB?\fR',
then an explanation of the
options available with the given limit will be listed.
.PP
Additional limits are specified by a semi-colon separated list.
.PP
If any following argument is just a `\fB\-\fR',
then the standard input is read for a list of user names,
one per line.
If any following argument \fIcontains\fP a `\fB\-\fR'
then it is interpreted as a range of uids,
otherwise if it ends in trailing dots (eg: 100\fB..\fR)
it is interpreted as a range running from the first uid up to the
maximum number of registered users.
Otherwise the argument is interpreted as a name.
.PP
A list of valid limits is printed out if
.I lim
is invoked with invalid arguments (or no arguments).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 16
/etc/shares
for share details.
.TP
/etc/passwd
for user names and \s-1ID\s0s.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
pl(1), lnode(5), shares(5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
\&... could not change kernel lnode ...
The limits system call failed for a logged in user,
usually because you are attempting to change a scheduling group
to one that isn't currently active.
.SH BUGS
.I Lim
does not use
.IR getshput (3),
so be careful something else is not updating the same entry simultaneously.
