.TH MAILX 1 "Post 4.0" " "
.de Cm
.ne 3
.TP
\\f3\\$1\\f1\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.br
..
.de C
.ne 2
.TP
\\f3\\$1\\f1\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.br
..
.de Ti
.ne 2
.TP
\\f3~\\^\\$1\\f1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.br
..
.de Va
.ne 2
.TP
\\f3\\$1\\f1=\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.br
..
.de V
.ne 2
.TP
\\f3\\$1\\f1
.br
..
.ds Ma \\f2mailx\\f1
.ds EV \s-1ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES\s+1
.ds CM "\s-1COMMANDS\s+1
.ds Te "\s-1TILDE ESCAPES\s+1
.ds WA "\s-1WARNINGS\s+1
.ds al \\f2alias\\f1
.ds nu \\f2number\\f1
.ds ms \\f2message\f1
.ds sh \\f2shell-command\\f1
.ds mc \\f2mail-command\\f1
.ds dl \\fBdead.letter\\f1
.ds mr \\f2.mailrc\\f1
.ds mb \\f2mbox\\f1
.ds mx \\f2mailbox\\f1
.ds ml \\f2msglist\\f1
.ds om [\\f2msglist\\f1]
.ds hf \\f2header-field\\f1
.ds fn \\f2filename\\f1
.ds st \\f2string\\f1
.ds dr \\f2directory\\f1
.ds nm \\f2address\\f1
.ds vr \\f2variable\\f1
.SH NAME
mailx \- interactive message processing system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mailx
[options] [address ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The command
\f2mailx\f1 provides a comfortable, flexible environment for sending and
receiving messages electronically.
When reading mail,
\*(Ma provides commands to facilitate saving, deleting, and responding to
messages.
When sending mail,
\*(Ma allows editing, reviewing and other modification of the message
as it is entered.
.PP
Incoming mail is stored in a standard file for each user,
called the \*(mx for that user.
When \*(Ma is called to read messages,
the \*(mx is the default place to find them.
As messages are read,
they may be marked to be moved to a secondary file for storage
(see ``hold''),
unless specific action is taken,
so that the messages need not be seen again.
This secondary file is called the \*(mb
and is normally located in the user's \s-1HOME\s+1 directory
(see ``\s-1MBOX\s+1'').
Messages can be saved in other secondary files named by the user.
Messages remain in a secondary file until forcibly removed.
.PP
The user can access a secondary file by using the 
\f3\-f\f1 option of the \*(Ma command.
Messages in the secondary file can then be read or otherwise
processed using the same \*(CM as in the primary \*(mx.
This gives rise within these pages to the notion of a current \*(mx.
.PP
On the command line,
.I options
start with a dash (\-) and any other arguments are taken to be
addresses.
If no recipients are specified,
\*(Ma will attempt to read messages from the \*(mx.
Command line options are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 14
.B \-e
Test for presence of mail.
\f2mailx\f1 prints nothing and exits with a successful return code if there is
mail to read.
.TP
.BR \-f \ [\*(fn]
Read messages from \*(fn instead of \*(mx.
If no \*(fn is specified,
the \*(mb is used.
.TP
.B \-F
Record the message in a file named after the first recipient.
Overrides the ``record'' variable, if set.
.TP
.B \-H
Print header summary only.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore interrupts.
See ``ignore''.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not initialize from the system default
.I mailx.rc
file.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not print initial header summary.
.TP
.BI \-s \ subject
Set the Subject header field to
.IR subject .
.TP
.BI \-u \ user
Read
.IR user 's
\*(mx.
This is only effective if
.IR user 's
\*(mx is not read protected.
.PD
.PP
When reading mail,
\*(Ma is in
command mode.
A header summary of the first several messages is displayed,
followed by a prompt indicating \*(Ma can accept regular commands
(see \*(CM below).
When sending mail,
\*(Ma is in
input mode.
If no subject is specified on the command line,
a prompt for the subject is printed.
As the message is typed,
\*(Ma will read the message and store it in a temporary
file.
Commands may be entered by beginning a line with the tilde (~) escape
character followed by a single command letter and optional arguments.
See \*(Te for a summary of these commands.
Outgoing mail may be saved in a local file (see ``record'').
.PP
At any time,
the behavior of \*(Ma is governed by a set of
\f2environment variables\f1.
These are flags and valued parameters which are set and cleared via the
``set'' and ``unset'' commands.
See \*(EV below for a summary of these parameters.
.PP
\*(Ma accepts \fIpost\fP addressing.
Login names may be any network address,
including mixed network addressing.
If mail is found to to undeliverable, an attempt is
made to return it to the sender's \f2mailbox\f1.
If the recipient name begins with a plus (+),
the rest of the name is a file to append the mail to.
If the file is a relative path name, it is prepended
with the value of the ``folder'' variable.
If the recipient name begins with a pipe symbol (|),
the rest of the name is taken to be a shell command to pipe the
message through.
This provides an automatic interface with any program that reads the standard
input, such as
.IR lp (1)
for recording outgoing mail on paper.
Alias groups are set by the ``alias'' command
and are lists of recipients of any type.
.PP
Regular commands are of the form
.ti +.5i
[
.B command
] [
.I msglist
] [
.I arguments
]
.br
If no command is specified in command mode,
.BR p rint
is assumed.
In input mode,
commands are recognized by the escape character,
and lines not treated as commands are taken as input for the message.
.PP
Each message is assigned a sequential number,
and there is at any time the notion of a current message,
marked by a right angle bracket (>) in the header summary.
Many commands take an optional list of messages
(\*(ml) to operate on. 
The default for \f2msglist\f1 is the current message.
A \*(ml is a list of message identifiers separated by spaces,
which may include:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 8
.B n
Message number
.BR n .
.TP
.B .
The current message.
.TP
.B ^
The first message.
.TP
.B $
The last message.
.TP
.B *
All messages.
.TP
.B n\-m
An inclusive range of message numbers.
.TP
.B user
All messages from
.BR user ,
where
.B user
is the network address of the sender.
.TP
.B /string
All messages with
.B string
in the subject line (case ignored).
.TP
.BI : c
All messages of type
.IR c ,
where
.I c
is one of:
.RS 13
.TP
.B d
deleted messages
.TP
.B n
new messages
.TP
.B o
old messages
.TP
.B r
read messages
.TP
.B u
unread messages
.RE
.PP
Note that the context of the command determines whether this type of
message specification makes sense.
.PD
.PP
Other arguments are usually arbitrary strings whose usage
depends on the command involved.
File names,
where expected,
are expanded via the normal shell conventions (see
.IR sh (1)).
Special characters are recognized by certain commands and are
documented with the commands below.
.PP
At start-up time,
\*(Ma tries to execute commands from the optional system-wide file
(\f3/usr/lib/mailx.rc\f1) to initialize
certain parameters,
then from a private start-up file (\f3$HOME/.mailrc\f1) for
personalized variables.
With the exceptions noted below, 
regular commands are legal inside start-up files.
The most common use of a start-up file is 
to set up initial display options and alias lists.
The following commands are not legal in the start-up file:
``!'', ``Copy'', ``edit'', ``followup'', ``Followup'', ``hold'',
``mail'', ``reply'', ``Reply'', ``shell'', and ``visual''.
An error in the start-up file causes the remaining lines in the file to
be ignored.
The \f3.mailrc\f1 file is optional, and must be constructed locally.
.SS \*(CM
The following is a complete list of \*(Ma commands:
.PP
.PD 0
.Cm ! \*(sh
Escape to the shell.
See ``\s-1SHELL\s+1''.
.Cm # "" \f2comment\f1
Null command (comment).
This may be useful in \*(mr files.
.Cm =
Print the current message number.
.Cm ?
Prints a summary of commands.
.Cm a lias \*(al \*(nm ...
Declare an alias for the given addresses.
The addresses will be substituted
when
\*(al is used as a recipient.
Useful in the \*(mr file.
.Cm alt ernates \*(nm ...
Declares a list of alternate addresses for your login.
When responding to a message,
these addresses are removed from the list of recipients for the response.
With no arguments,
.BR alt ernates
prints the current list of alternate addresses.
See also ``allnet''.
.Cm cd "" [\*(dr]
Change directory.
If \*(dr is not specified,
\s-1$HOME\s+1 is used.
.Cm c opy [\*(fn]
.C c opy \*(om \*(fn
Copy messages to the file without marking the messages as saved.
Otherwise equivalent to the ``save'' command.
.Cm C opy \*(om
Save the specified messages in a file whose name is derived from the
author of the
message to be saved, without marking the messages as saved.
Otherwise equivalent to the ``Save'' command.
.Cm d elete \*(om
Delete messages from the \*(mx.
If ``autoprint'' is set,
the next message after the last one deleted is printed.
.Cm di scard [\*(hf ...]
Suppresses printing of the specified header fields when displaying messages
on the screen.
Examples of header fields to ignore are ``status'' and ``cc''.
The fields are included when the message is saved.
The ``Print'' command overrides this command.
.Cm dp "" \*(om
Delete the specified messages from the \*(mx and print the next message
after the last one deleted.
Roughly equivalent to a ``delete''
command followed by a ``print'' command.
.Cm ec ho \*(st ...
Echo the given strings (like
.IR echo (1)).
.Cm e dit \*(om
Edit the given messages.
The messages are placed in a temporary file and the ``EDITOR'' variable
is used to get the name of the editor.
Default editor is
.IR ed (1).
.Cm ex it
.C x it
Exit from \*(Ma,
without changing the \*(mx.
No messages are saved in the \*(mb (see also
.BR q uit).
.Cm fi le [\*(fn]
Quit from the current file of messages and read in the specified file.
Several special characters are recognized when used as file names,
with the following substitutions:
.RS 10
.TP 8
%
current \*(mx.
.TP
.RB % user
\*(mx for
.BR user .
.TP
#
previous file.
.TP
&
current \*(mb.
.RE
.RS 5
Default file is the current \*(mx.
.RE
.Cm folders
Print the names of the files in the
directory set by the ``folder'' variable.
.Cm fo llowup \*(om
Reply to the first message in the \*(ml,
sending the message to the author of each message in the \*(ml.
The subject line is taken from the first message
and the response is recorded in a file whose name is derived
from the author of the first message.
See also the ``Followup'', ``Save'', and ``Copy''
commands, and ``outfolder'' and ``flipf''.
.Cm F ollowup [\*(ms]
Reply to the specified message,
recording the response in a file whose name is derived from the
author of the message.
Overrides the ``record'' variable, if set.
See also the ``followup'', ``Save'', and ``Copy''
commands, and ``outfolder'' and ``flipf''.
.Cm f rom \*(om
Prints the header summary for the specified messages.
.Cm h eaders [\*(ms]
Prints the page of headers which includes the message specified.
The ``screen'' variable sets the number of headers per page.
See also the ``z'' command.
.Cm hel p
Prints a summary of commands.
.Cm ho ld \*(om
Holds the specified messages in the \*(mx.
.Cm i f \fBs\f1 | \fBr\f1
.C "" \*(mcs
.C el se
.C "" \*(mcs
.C en dif
Conditional execution, where
.B s
will execute following \*(mcs, up to an
.BR el se
or
.BR en dif,
if the program is in
send mode, and
.B r
causes the \*(mcs to be executed only in
receive mode.
Useful in the \*(mr file.
.Cm l ist
Prints all commands available.
No explanation is given.
.Cm m ail \*(nm ...
Mail a message to the specified \*(nm\fI(es)\fR.
If ``record'' is set to a file name, the reply is saved at the
end of that file.
.Cm M ail \*(nm
Mail a message to the specified \*(nm and record a copy of it
in a file named after that \*(nm.
.Cm mb ox \*(om
Arrange for the given messages to end up in the standard \*(mb save file
when \*(Ma terminates normally.
See ``MBOX'' for a description of this file.
See also the ``exit'' and ``quit'' commands.
.Cm n ext [\*(ms]
Go to next message matching \*(ms.
A \*(ml may be specified,
but in this case the first valid message in the list is the only one used.
This is useful for jumping to the next message from a specific user,
since the name would be taken as a command in the absence of a real command.
See the discussion of \*(mls above for a description of
possible message specifications.
.Cm pi pe \*(om [\*(sh]
Pipe the message through the given \*(sh.
The message is treated as if it were read.
If no arguments are given,
the current message is piped through the command specified by the
value of the ``cmd'' variable.
If the ``page'' variable is set,
a form feed character is inserted after each message.
.Cm p rint \*(om
Print the specified messages.
If ``crt'' is set,
the messages longer than the number of lines specified by the
``crt'' variable are paged through the command specified by the
``PAGER'' variable.
The default command is
.IR pg (1).
.Cm P rint \*(om
Print the specified messages on the screen,
including all header fields.
Overrides suppression of fields by the ``ignore'' command.
.Cm q uit
Exit from \*(Ma,
storing messages that were read in \*(mb and unread messages in the \*(mx.
Messages that have been explicitly saved in a file are deleted.
.Cm r eply [\*(ml]
Send a response to the author of each message in the \*(ml.
The subject line is taken from the first message.
If ``record'' is set to a file name,
the response is saved at the end of that file.
See ``flipr''.
.Cm R eply [\*(ms]
Reply to the specified message,
including all other recipients of the message.
If ``record'' is set to a file name,
the response is saved at the end of that file.
See ``flipr''.
.Cm s ave [\*(fn]
.C s ave \*(om \*(fn
Save the specified messages in the given file.
The file is created if it does not exist.
The message is deleted from the \*(mx when
\*(Ma terminates unless ``keepsave'' is set
(see the ``exit'' and ``quit'' commands).
.Cm S ave \*(om
Save the specified messages in a file whose name is derived from
the author of the first message.
The name of the file is taken to be the author's name with all
network addressing stripped off.
See also the ``Copy'', ``followup'', and ``Followup''
commands and ``outfolder''.
.Cm se t
.C se t \*(vr
.C se t \*(vr=\*(st
.C se t \*(vr=\*(nu
Define a variable called \*(vr.
The variable may be given a null, string, or numeric value.
``Set'' by itself prints all defined variables and their values.
See \*(EV for detailed descriptions of the \*(Ma variables.
.Cm sh ell
Invoke an interactive shell (see ``SHELL'').
.Cm si ze \*(om
Print the size in characters of the specified messages.
.Cm so urce \*(fn
Read commands from the given file and return to command mode.
.Cm to p \*(om
Print the top few lines of the specified messages.
If the ``toplines'' variable is set,
it is taken as the number of lines to print.
The default is 5.
.Cm tou ch \*(om
Touch the specified messages.
If any message in \*(ml is not specifically saved in a file,
it will be placed in the \*(mb,
or the file specified in the MBOX environment variable, upon normal termination.
See ``exit'' and ``quit''.
.Cm u ndelete \*(om
Restore the specified deleted messages.
Will only restore messages deleted in the current mail session.
If ``autoprint'' is set, the last message of those restored is printed.
.Cm undi scard [\*(hf ...]
Restore printing of the specified header fields when displaying messages
on the screen.
.Cm uns et \*(vr ...
Causes the specified variables to be erased.
If the variable was imported from the execution environment (i.e., a
shell variable) then it cannot be erased.
.Cm ve rsion
Prints the current version and release date.
.Cm v isual \*(om
Edit the given messages with a screen editor.
The messages are placed in a temporary file and the ``VISUAL'' variable
is used to get the name of the editor.
.Cm w rite \*(om \*(fn
Write the given messages on the specified file,
minus the header and trailing blank line.
Otherwise equivalent to the ``save'' command.
.Cm z [+|\-]
Scroll the header display forward or backward one screen\-full.
The number of headers displayed is set by the ``screen'' variable.
.PD
.SS \*(Te
The following commands may be entered only from
input mode,
by beginning a line with the tilde escape character (~).
See
``escape''
for changing this special character.
.PP
.PD 0
.Ti ! \*(sh
Escape to the shell.
.Ti : \*(mc
Perform the command-level request.
.Ti ?
Print a summary of tilde escapes.
.Ti A
Insert the autograph string ``Sign'' into the message.
.Ti a
Insert the autograph string ``sign'' into the message.
.Ti b \*(nm ...
Add the \*(nmes to the blind carbon copy (Bcc) list.
See ``askcc''.
.Ti c \*(nm ...
Add the \*(nmes to the carbon copy (Cc) list.
See ``askbcc''.
.Ti d
Read in the \*(dl file.
See ``DEAD''.
.Ti e
Invoke the editor on the partial message.
See ``EDITOR''.
.Ti f \*(om
Forward the specified messages.
The messages are inserted into the message
without alteration.
.Ti h
Prompt for Subject, To, Cc, and Bcc lists.
If the field is displayed with an initial value,
it may be edited as if you had just typed it.
.Ti i \*(st
Insert the value of the named variable into the text of the message.
For example, ``~A''is equivalent to ``~i \ Sign''.
Environment variables set and exported in the shell are also
accessible by ``~i''.
.Ti m \*(om
Insert the specified messages into the letter,
shifting the new text to the right one tab stop (see ``mprefix'').
Valid only when sending a message while reading mail.
.Ti p
Print the message being entered.
.Ti q
Quit from input mode by simulating an interrupt.
If the body of the message is not null,
the partial message is saved in \*(dl.
See ``DEAD'' for a description of this file.
.Ti r \*(fn
.br
.Ti r  !\*(sh
.br
Read in the specified file.
If the argument begins with an exclamation point,
the rest of the string is taken as a shell command
and is executed,
with the standard output inserted into the message.
.Ti R
Request a return-receipt when the recipient reads the mailbox.
The return-receipt is generated if the recipient reads the mail using
.IR post (1),
AT&T Mail, or OTS.
.Ti s \*(st ...
Set the subject line to \*(st.
.Ti t \*(nm ...
Add the given \*(nmes to the To list.
.Ti v
Invoke a preferred screen editor on the partial message.
See ``VISUAL''.
.Ti w \*(fn
.br
.Ti w  !\*(sh
.br
Write the message without the headers onto the given file.
If the argument begins with an exclamation point,
the rest of the string is taken as a shell command
and is executed,
with the standard input being the message without the headers.
.Ti x
Exit as with
.B ~q
except the message is not saved in \*(dl.
.Ti | \*(sh
Pipe the body of the message through the given \*(sh.
If the \*(sh returns a successful exit status,
the output of the command replaces the message.
.PD
.SS \*(EV
The following are environment variables taken from the execution environment and
are not alterable within \*(Ma.
.PD 0
.Va \s-1HOME\s+1 \*(dr
The user's base of operations.
.Va \s-1MAILRC\s+1 \*(fn
The name of the start-up file.
Default is \fB$HOME/.mailrc\fR.
.PD
.PP
The following variables are internal \*(Ma variables.
They may be imported from the execution environment or
set via the ``set'' command at any time.
The ``unset'' command may be used to erase variables.
.PD 0
.V allnet
.Va allnet \fBuucp\f1
.Va allnet \fBany\f1
.Va allnet \fBheader\f1
All network names whose last component (login name) match are treated as
identical.
If
.B uucp
is the argument, all network names whose two last components
(system and login name) that match are treated as identical.
This causes the \*(ml message specifications to behave similarly.
If
.B any
is the argument,
.I user
is treated as a pattern to be matched anywhere in the first
line of a message (similar to /bin/mail).
.If
.B header
is the argument,
.I user
is treated as a pattern to be used in a case-independent match
of either the network address in the first line of a message or
the full name, as printed by the ``headers'' command.
Default is ``allnet=any''.
See also the ``alternates'' command and the ``metoo'' variable.
.V append
Upon termination, append messages to the end of the \*(mb file instead of prepending them.
Enabled by default.
.V askbcc
Prompt for the Bcc list after message is entered.
Default is ``noaskbcc''.
.V askcc
Prompt for the Cc list after message is entered.
Default is ``noaskcc''.
.V asksub
Prompt for subject if it is not specified on the command line
with the \-s option.
Enabled by default.
.V autoprint
Enable automatic printing of messages after ``delete''
and ``undelete'' commands.
Default is ``noautoprint''.
.V bang
Enable the special-casing of exclamation points (!) in shell escape
command lines
as in
.IR vi (1).
Default is ``nobang''.
.Va cmd \*(sh
Set the default command for the ``pipe'' command.
No default value.
.V crt
.Va crt \*(nu
Pipe messages having more than \f2number\f1 lines
through the command specified by the value of the ``\s-1PAGER\s+1'' variable.
Enabled by default.
.Va DEAD \*(fn
The name of the file in which to save partial letters
in case of untimely interrupt. 
Default is
.BR $HOME/dead.letter .
.V debug
Enable verbose diagnostics for debugging.
Messages are not delivered.
Default is ``nodebug''.
.V dot
Take a period on a line by itself during input from a terminal as end-of-file.
Enabled by default.
.Va EDITOR \*(sh
The command to run when the ``edit'' or ``~e'' command is used.
Default is ``ed''.
.Va escape \f2c\f1
Substitute
.I c
for the ~ escape character.
.V flipf
Reverse the meanings of the ``followup'' and ``Followup'' commands in
composition mode.
Enabled by default.
.V flipr
Reverse the meanings of the ``reply'' and ``Reply'' commands in
composition mode.
Enabled by default.
.Va folder \*(dr
The directory for saving standard mail files.
User-specified relative file names beginning with a plus (+)
are expanded by preceding the file name with
this directory name to obtain the real file name.
If \*(dr does not start with a slash (/),
$HOME is prepended to it.
Default is
.BR $HOME .
See also ``outfolder'' below.
.V header
Enable printing of the header summary when entering \*(Ma.
Enabled by default.
.V hold
Hold all messages that are read in the mailbox instead of putting them
in the standard \*(mb file.
Enabled by default.
.V ignore
Ignore interrupts while entering messages.
Handy for noisy dial-up lines.
Default is
.BR noignore .
.V ignoreeof
Ignore end-of-file during message input.
Input must be terminated by a period (.) on a line by itself
or by the ``~.'' command (see ``dot'').
Default is ``noignoreeof''.
.Va iprompt \*(st
Set the composition mode prompt to \fIstring\fP.
Default is no prompt.
.V keepsave
Keep messages that have been saved in other files in the mailbox
instead of deleting them.
Default is ``nokeepsave''.
.Va \s-1LISTER\s+1 \*(sh
The command (and options) to use when listing the contents of the ``folder''
directory.
The default is ls.
.Va \s-1MBOX\s+1 \*(fn
The name of the file to save messages which have been read.
The ``xit'' command overrides this function,
as does saving the message explicitly in another file.
Default is
.BR $HOME/mbox .
.V metoo
If your login appears as a recipient,
do not delete it from the list.
Default is ``nometoo''.
.Va mprefix \*(st
Set the leading string to be used with the ``~m'' command.
Default is a tab character.
.V onehop
When responding to a message that was originally sent to several
recipients,
the other recipient addresses are normally forced to be relative to the
originating author's machine for the response.
This flag disables alteration of the recipients' addresses,
improving efficiency in a network where all machines can send directly
to all other machines (i.e., one hop away).
Disabled by default.
.V outfolder
Causes the files used to record outgoing messages to be located
in the directory specified by the ``folder'' variable unless the
path name is absolute.
Default is ``nooutfolder''.
See ``folder'' and the
``Save'', ``Copy'', ``followup'', and ``Followup'' commands.
.V page
Used with the ``pipe''
command to insert a form feed after each message sent through the pipe.
Default is ``nopage''.
.Va \s-1PAGER\s+1 \*(sh
The command to use as a filter for paginating output.
This can also be used to specify the options to be used.
Default is ``pg \-e'' .
.Va prompt \*(st
Set the command mode prompt to \*(st.
Default is ``? ''.
.V quiet
Don't print the opening message and version when entering \*(Ma.
Default is ``quiet''.
.Va record \*(fn
Record all outgoing mail in \*(fn.
Disabled by default.
See also ``outfolder'' above.
.V save
Enable saving of messages in \*(dl on interrupt or delivery error.
See ``DEAD'' for a description of this file.
Enabled by default.
.Va screen \*(nu
Sets the number of lines in a screen\-full of headers for the
``headers'' command.
Default depends on baud rate.
.Va sendmail \*(sh
Alternate command for delivering messages.
Default is
.BR /bin/mail .
.V sendwait
Wait for background mailer to finish before returning.
Enabled by default.
.Va SHELL \*(sh
The name of a preferred command interpreter.
Default is
.BR /bin/sh .
.V showto
When displaying the header summary and the message is from you,
print the recipient's address instead of the author's address.
Enabled by default.
.Va sign \*(st
The variable inserted into the text of a message when the ``~a''
command is given.
No default (see also ~i).
.Va Sign \*(st
The variable inserted into the text of a message when the ``~A''
command is given.
No default (see also ~i).
.Va toplines \*(nu
The number of lines of header to print with the ``top'' command.
Default is 5.
.Va translate \fIcommand\fP
Run the given address(es) through
.I command
for resolution.
Disabled by default.
.Va \s-1VISUAL\s+1 \*(sh
The name of a preferred screen editor.
Default is ``vi''.
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
$HOME/.mailrc
personal start-up file
.TP
$HOME/mbox
secondary storage file
.TP
/usr/mail/*
mailboxes
.TP
/usr/lib/mailx.help*
help message files
.TP
/usr/lib/mailx.rc
optional global start-up file
.TP
/tmp/R[emqsx]*
temporary files
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
ls(1),
mail(1),
post(1),
pg(1).
