.TH OPR 1
.SH NAME
opr \- off line print on Xerox 9700
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B opr
[
.I option ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad b
.I Pn
prints its standard input
on the Xerox 9700 printer.
The options include:
.TP 13
.BI \-pland
Print in landscape mode, rather than the default portrait mode.
.RE
.TP 13
.BI \-y style
Print using font
.I style.
.ne 8
Allowable styles are:
.sp
.RS 8m
.ta +12nR +7nR +11nR +7nR +9nR +7nR
.nf
				dflt lin/page		max chr/lin
style	chr/in	lin/in	port	land	port	land
vint	12.0	6.5	66	50	94	126
elit	12.0	6.5	66	50	94	126
pica	10.0	6.0	62	46	78	105
bell	13.6	8.5	88	66	106	132
mini	17.6	12.5	132	96	132	132
xr18	6.8	4.0	42	31	53	71
vg14	5.2	4.2	43	32	40	55
tr14	NA	4.2	43	32	NA	NA
.fi
.RE
.IP "" 13
The default style is vint.
The xr, vg, and tr styles are large fonts for viewgraphs, where the
third and fourth characters of the names indicate the approximate point
size of the font.
The tr style is a proportionally spaced font
which may not align horizontally for such constructs as
centered text and indented lists. 
.TP 13
.BI \-k mask
The
.I mask
is the name of an electronic form to be overlaid on each page.
Possibilities are
.RS 10m
.ta 12n +12n
.nf
.br
blogo	Bell Laboratories logo (top right corner).
prin3	Proprietary information message (small type).
vgraf	Bell logo for viewgraphs (bottom left corner).
.fi
.RE
.TP 13
.BI \-c n
Make
.IR n
copies of the output.
Default is 1; max is 99.
.TP
.BI \-fnohole
Print on paper without prepunched holes.
.TP
.BI \-l n
Print
.IR n
lines per page.
.TP
.BI \-o n
Offset the output
.IR n
spaces from the left margin.
Default is 0.
.TP
.BI \-r
The first character of each line is taken to be carriage control (e.g. 1, +)
.PP
.IR Pn
queues a job to do the printing
when facilities become available.
A new sheet is begun for each file.
Backspaces, form feeds, carriage returns, and tabs are handled.
Escape characters result in a fatal error.
All other control characters are passed on to the output.
Tab stops are assumed every 8 spaces.
The output bin, user id, and charge account are taken from /etc/passwd.
.SH BUGS
The printer has a limited overprinting capability.
If this is exceeded, the page will be blank.
.br
Lines longer than 132 characters are silently truncated.
