.TH PWINTF 1 SHARE
.SH NAME
pwintf \- print selected limits file entries using printf formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pwintf
[-p shares_file] expression format [identifier..]
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each entry in the system shares file the expression
argument is evaluated.
If the result is non zero
the remaining arguments are treated as if they were arguments
to
.I printf
(see
.IR printf (3S)).
An alternative shares file may be specified with the
.I -p
option.
.PP
Expression elements are:
.TP "\w'identifierXXXX'u"
||
Binary or. Non zero if the left hand side or the right hand side
evaluates to a non zero value.
.TP
&&
Binary and. Non zero if the left hand side and the right hand
side are both non zero.
.TP
== !=
Equal/not equal to. Non zero if the left hand side
and the right hand side
are equal/not equal.
.TP
> <
Greater/less than. Non zero is the left hand side is
greater/less than the right hand side.
.TP
>= <=
Greater/less than or equal to. Non zero if the left hand side
is greater/less than or equal to the right hand side.
.TP
~
Regular expression matching. Non zero if the string on the left
hand side matches the regular expression given by the string
on the right hand side. Regular expressions are given in the
style of
.I ed
(see
.IR ed (1)).
.TP
!
Unary not. Non zero if the right hand side evaluates to zero.
.TP
".."
A string of characters.
.TP
{..}
A date.
Date specifications are in the style:
.B {[[[[[yy]mm]dd]hh]mm][.ss]}.
For example
.B {01271200}
would be noon on the 27th of January in the current year.
.TP
(..)
A sub-expression.
.TP
identifier
Any one of the identifiers described below.
.TP
number
A decimal digit string.
.PP
Note that the expression may have to be quoted
to stop the shell from interpreting symbols such as
\fB&\fR
as symbols having special meaning.
.SH FORMATS
All
.I printf
format specifications and modifiers are allowed except the
\&'*' modifier. To facilitate the printing of dates
which are stored as the number of seconds since
1st January 1970,
\fB%t\fR
may be used. This will cause the corresponding integral
argument to be interpreted as a time and given in the style
of
.I ctime
(see
.IR ctime (3C)).
All modifiers will be ignored in such a time specification.
.SH IDENTIFIERS
In the following list words printed in
.B "this font"
are as defined in the include files <shares.h> and <sys/lnode.h>.
.PD 0
.TP "\w'assumeddisconXX'u"
activelnode
1 if the account has the
.B ACTIVELNODE
flag set.
.TP
changed
1 if the account has the
.B CHANGED
flag set.
.TP
charge
The long term accumulated costs of the account as a floating point number.
.TP
deadgroup
1 if the account has the
.B DEADGROUP
flag set.
.TP
dirpath
The initial directory of the account as a string.
.TP
flags
A string containing the names of the flags set for this account.
.TP
gecos
The ``gecos'' field of the account as a string.
.TP
gid
The integral gid of this account.
.TP
lastref
1 if the account has the
.B LASTREF
flag set.
.TP
lastused
The time the account last did anything.
.TP
lname
The login name of the account as a string.
.TP
notshared
1 if the account has a
.B NOTSHARED
flag.
.TP
now
The current time.
.TP
pword
The encrypted password of the account as a string.
.TP
sgroup
The uid of the scheduling group of this account.
.TP
sgroupname
The lname of the scheduling group of this account.
.TP
shares
The integral number of shares the account has.
.TP
shellpath
The initial shell of the account as a string.
.TP
usage
The usage of the account as a floating point number.
.TP
uid
The integral uid of this account.
.PD
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.br
/etc/shares
.SH SEE ALSO
printf(3S), ctime(3C), shares(5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Yes. A summary of usage is given when pwintf
is invoked with no arguments.
