.TH SHSTATS 1 SHARE
.SH NAME
shstats \- show histogram of share scheduler user priorities
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shstats
[-#] [-cn] [-sn] [-un]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Shstats
prints a table of system scheduling parameters,
the share variables for a selected user (default: the invoker),
and a histogram of users vs. normalised usage.
In the histogram, the current user selected
is represented by the character `\fB~\fP',
and other users by a unique character
in the \fIascii\fP range `\fB!\fP' to `\fB}\fP'.
.P
Invoked without arguments,
.I shstats
will print the table and exit.
The flags affect operation as follows:-
.RS 2
.TP 10
.ul
flag
.ul
meaning
.TP
.BI -#
All users except the invoker will be represented by the character \fB#\fP.
.TP
.BI -c n
Continuous operation, where
.BR n ,
if present, limits the number of cycles.
.TP
.BI -s n
Delay time between updates becomes
.B n
seconds [default 4].
.TP
.BI -u n
Change the selected user to the one whose 
.I uid
matches
.IR n .
.P
In continuous non-\fIhash\fP mode,
.I shstats
will read the
.I "standard input"
while waiting for the next display update
for the invoker to type the identifier for a user to select.
This can be either a single character
to select the user represented by that character in the histogram,
or a login name, or a uid.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS 4
\fBshstats \-#c | dis\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
dis(1),
rates(1),
ustats(1),
share(5).
.SH BUGS
Reading from the
.I "standard input"
when output is piped through
.I dis
doesn't seem to work,
perhaps because of some weirdness in the way
.I curses
drives the screen.
