.TH SUBMIT 7
.CT 1 writing_output
.SH NAME
submit \- install document in database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B submit
.I name
[
.I option ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Submit
ships a paper to
.FR /n/bowell/pap/spool ,
from whence the paper will be installed under the given
.I name
in a database of locally-authored papers.
The paper then becomes available for printing with
.IR makepaper
(see
.IR papers (7))
or for on-line inspection with
.IR reader (9.7).
.PP
.I Submit
expects to be run from a directory that
contains the files for the paper.
If only the
.I  name 
argument is given, 
.I submit
assumes that the paper is maintained by
.IR make (1)
and follows instructions in the makefile, which must be present.
The options are
.TP
.B -mk
Use
.IR mk (1)
instead of
.I make.
.TP
.BI -M " makefile
Use the given makefile.
.TP
.BI -m " target
Make the given target.
.TP
.BI -s " script arg ..."
Use a shell
.I script
instead of a makefile.
.TP
.BI -i " file ..."
Format the paper with
.IR troff (1)
from the listed files, using macro packages and preprocessors as 
determined by
.IR doctype (1).
Do not use a makefile or a shell script.
.TP
.BI -t " file ...
Format the paper with
.IR tex (1)
from the listed files.
Do not use a makefile or a shell script.
Only the basenames of the files need be given.
.TP
.B -tatex
The paper uses
.IR tatex 
(see
.IR latex (7)).
This option is used only in conjunction with
.BR -t .
.SH FILES
.F /n/bowell/pap/spool/*
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Submit
complains if it can't find input or if it encounters a
.I troff
.L .sy
command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR reader (9.7), 
.IR troff (1), 
.IR papers (7)
.SH BUGS
.I Submit
fails if the
.I troff
preprocessors are run in a `hidden' way
by calling a program (or shell script).
.br
When
.I troff
preprocessor output (i.e. 
.IR "pic, grap, tbl, tped, ideal" )
is included directly in the paper or with 
.B .so
commands,
an attempt is made to find the preprocessor input file.
If this attempt fails,
.I submit
refuses to ship the paper.
.br
Automatic installation fails if the system can't find
the author's name or the author is not in the file containing
the center organization.
.br
Doesn't work with 
.IR monk (1).
