.TH TROFF 5
.CT 1 writing_output
.SH NAME
troff \- device-independent output
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Troff (1)
produces an ASCII representation of a typeset document,
expressed in the following syntax.
Strings inside
.B [
.B ]
are optional.
The string
.B \en
represents newline.
White space (spaces or newlines) may occur
between commands and is sometimes necessary to terminate numbers.
.PP
.TP
.BI s n
Set point size to
.I n.
.PD 0
.TP
.BI f n
Use font in position 
.I n.
Normally fonts
are mounted starting at position 1; 0 is reserved.
.I troff.
.TP
.BI c x
Place character
.I x
at the current location on the page;
.I x
is a single ASCII character.
.TP
.BI C name
Place special character.
The
.I name
of the character is delimited by white space.
.TP
.BI H n
Go to horizontal location
.I n,
expressed in basic units.
.TP
.BI h n
Add 
.I n
to the current horizontal location (relative goto).
.TP
.BI V n
Go to vertical location
.I n,
measured positive downward.
.TP
.BI v n
Add 
.I n
to the current vertical location.
.TP
.I nnx
A two-digit number followed by an ASCII character; equivalent to
.BI h nn c x.
.TP
.BI n b\ a
End of line.
No action is required;
.I troff
will explicitly reset the location.
Number
.IR b 
is the amount of space before
the line,
.IR a ,
the amount of space after the line.
.TP
.B w
A
.B w
appears between words of the input document.
No action is
required.
.TP
.BI p n
Begin a new page with page number
.I n.
The vertical location on the page becomes 0.
.TP
.BI # \ .... \en
Comment.
.TP
.BI Dl " x y" \en
Draw a line from the current location by
.IR x , y .
.TP 
.BI Dc " d" \en
Draw a circle of diameter
.I d
with the leftmost edge at the current location,
.IR x , y .
The current location becomes
.IR x + d  , y .
.TP
.BI De " dx dy" \en
Draw an ellipse with 
.IR x -axis
.I dx
and
.IR y -axis
.I dy.
The leftmost edge
of the ellipse will be at the current location.
The current location becomes
.IR x + dx , y .
.TP
.BI Da " x y u v" \en
Draw an arc counterclockwise from the current location to
.IR x + u,
.IR y + v,
with center offset
.IR x , y
from the current location.
The end of the arc becomes the current location.
.TP
.BI D~ " x y x y ..." \en
Draw a spline curve (wiggly line) from the
current location, moving by
.I x,y
each time.
The end of the curve becomes the current location.
.TP
.B x\ i[nit]\en
Initialize the typesetting device.
The actions required depend on the device.
.TP
.BI x\ T \ dest \en
The name of the typesetter is
.IR dest ,
as in  option
.BR \-T 
of
.IR troff (1).
.TP
.BI "x r[es]" " n h v" \en
The resolution of the typesetting device is
.IR n 
units per inch.
Horizontal motions must be multiples of
.I h
units, vertical motions 
.I v
units.
.TP
.B x p[ause]\en
Pause.
Cause the current page to finish but do not relinquish the
typesetter.
.TP
.B x s[top]\en
Stop.
Cause the current page to finish and then relinquish the typesetter.
.TP
.B x t[railer]\en
Generate a trailer if necessary.
.TP
.BI "x f[ont]" " n name" \en
Load font
.I name
into position
.IR n .
.TP
.BI "x H[eight] "  n \en
Set the character height to
.I n
points.
This causes the letters
to be elongated or shortened.
It does not affect the width
of a letter.
Not all typesetters can do this.
.TP
.BI "x S[lant] " n \en
Set the slant to
.I n
degrees, if possible.
.TP
.BI x "..." \en
Arbitrary;  may be used for device-specific functions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR troff (1),
.IR d202 (1),
.IR apsend (1),
.IR lp (1),
.IR proof (9.1)
.br
B. W. Kernighan,
.I "A Typesetter-Independent Troff
this manual, volume 2.
