.TH VC 4
.CT 2 graphics
.SH NAME
vc \- versatec model 122 interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/vcio.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
The files
.I vc[0-9] refer to the Versatec model 122 interface.  Any plotter obeying
the Versatec "green sheet" interface standard can be used with this interface.
.PP
Upon opening the device, a RESET_ALL command is executed by the driver.
The driver will only accept a
.I write
or an
.IR ioctl (2)
; reads will fail and seeks are ignored.
.PP
.IR ioctl (2)
calls perform special operations.  There are two basic calls: VGETSTATE
and VSETSTATE.  VSETSTATE can be used to send special commands to the plotter
by setting bits in the control status register (CSR).
VGETSTATE returns the CSR of the interface.  The functions are specified in
vcio.h.  The bits are as follows:
.TP
.B VC_SPP
is "Simultaneous Print/Plot"
.TP
.B VC_PP
is print/plot mode.  Data bytes sent in print mode are printed using the ROM
in the plotter.  Bytes written in plot mode are plotted.  It is possible to
use print mode to send commands to the plotter.  See the manual for details.
.TP
.B VC_SWPBT
swaps the bytes in the interface.  Useful for the VAX.
.PP 
The remote operations are sent one at a time.
.TF VC_RLTER
is short for
.I "Remote Line Terminate".
It sends a line terminator to the Versatec.
.TP
.B VC_CLEAR
clears the buffer.
.TP
.B VC_RESET
will reset the controller and the plotter.
.TP
.B VC_RFFED
is short for
.I "Remote Form Feed"
and will advance the paper.
.TP
.B VC_REOTR
is short for
.I "Remote End of Transmission"
which is equivalent to sending an EOF.
.TP
.B VC_RESET_ALL
is the ultimate reset.
.PD
.SH FILES
.F /dev/vc?
.SH BUGS
