.TH VSW 1
.CT 1 prog_other
.SH NAME
vsw \- video switcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vsw
[
.I option
] [
.I iopair ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vsw
controls Dynair (System 10 and Dynasty) video switches.
There is a composite video switch and a 3 channel (rgb) switch.
Each switch has ten or more inputs and outputs.
Inputs may be attached to one or more outputs (fanout).
Outputs may not be attached to more than one input (no mixing).
.PP
The optional
.I iopair
arguments are two letters
.I io
which mean attach input letter
.I i
to output channel letter
.IR o .
The options are
.TP
.B -c
Use the composite video switch.
Exactly one of
.B -c
and
.B -r
must be specified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B -d
Describe the input and output channels.
.TP
.B -i
Initialize the switch to a default setting.
.TP
.B -p
Print the current switch configuration suitable for processing with
.IR vsw .
.TP
.B -r
Use the rgb video switch.
Exactly one of
.B -c
and
.B -r
must be specified.
.TP
.B -v
Be more verbose.
.PD
.PP
By convention, video switch access to monitors is for
`INPUT B',
which is normally selected by a button on the front.
The Barco monitor is an exception; use
`COMP VIDEO 1'.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B x=`vsw -cp`
Save the current configuration.
.TP
.B vsw $x
Restore the configuration.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR 2500 (1)
.SH BUGS
For timing reasons,
.I vsw
only works from fast or unloaded machines.
.br
The input/output names are a little terse.
.br
To power-cycle the rgb switch, look for the blue ribbon
cable that daisy chains the three boxes.
The box at
one end of the chain has a coax cable connected to `comm';
start power cycling at the other end of the daisy chain.
.br
The switch may need to be reset after prolonged power outages
(in this case,
.I vsw
will complain) by
.br
.B "cd /n/bowell/usr/src/cmd/vsw; mk init.vsw"
