.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.TH POLY 5 bowell
.CT 1 inst_info
.SH NAME
poly \- polyhedron database
.SH DESCRIPTION
The directory
.B /usr/lib/polyhedra
contains an index file and many polyhedron description files,
each describing a solid polyhedron and its (not necessarily unique) planar net.
Each line of the index file consists of a polyhedron's number followed
by a horizontal tab and the polyhedron's name.
The polyhedron's number is also the name of its description file.
The routines of
.IR poly (3)
read such description files.
.PP
Each description file consists of a number of fields.
Each field begins with a line consisting of
.L :
and the field name.
The field continues until the next header line or end of file.
Some fields contain
.IR values ,
which consist of a floating point number
optionally followed by an algebraic expression enclosed in
.LR [] ,
or
.IR angles ,
which are a
.I value
in radians and optionally two more values (sin and cos) separated by
.LR @ .
The fields include,
but are not limited to,
.TF vertices
.TP
.B number
The polyhedron's number.
.PD
.TP
.B name
The polyhedron's name, less than 128 characters long and not capitalized.
.TP
.B symbol
The
.if n Schlaefli
.if t Schlaefli
symbol, a tab, and the Johnson symbol for the polyhedron,
given in
.IR eqn (1)
style with delimiters
.LR @@ .
.TP
.B dual
The name of the dual polyhedron optionally followed by a horizontal tab
and the number of the dual.
.TP
.B vertices
The first line is the number of vertices, which follow, one per line.
Each vertex has a coordinate (three
.I values
separated by spaces),
a number
.IR n ,
and
.I n
face,edge pairs that surround the vertex.
.TP
.B faces
The first line contains the number of faces and the maximum number of
vertices in any face.
The remaining lines are the faces, each with a vertex count
.IR n ,
followed by
.RI 2 n
vertex numbers (planar, solid),
.RI 2 n
edge numbers (planar, solid),
and
.I n
angles.
The vertices of each face are listed in the same order for both the
planar and solid forms:
counter-clockwise as viewed from above the planar net
(i.e. from
.IR z >0)
which generally corresponds to outside the solid polyhedron.
.TP
.B edges
The first line contains the number of edges.
Each edge is one line:
.IR "face1 vertex1 face2 vertex2 length angle" .
The length is a
.IR value .
.TP
.B summary
The three lines summarise the different kinds of faces,
vertices and edges respectively.
Each line consists of a total and a list of
.I "count example symbolic"
triples; where
.I example
is an index into the appropriate list and
.I symbolic
is given in
.IR eqn (1)
style with delimiters
.LR @@ .
.TP
.B EOF
The end of the polyhedron's description.
(Another polyhedron description may follow in this file.)
.PP
An expression in a
.I value
gives the exact value in the syntax of
.IR bc (1)
using these functions:
.if n .ig
$a(x) ~=~ {tan sup -1 {( x )}}$,
$b(x) ~=~ { ( x ) } sup { 1/3 }$,
$c(x) ~=~ {cos ( {x} ) }$,
$d(x) ~=~ {tan {( x )}}$,
$p ~=~ {pi}$,
$q(x) ~=~ {{x} sup 2}$,
$r(x) ~=~ {cos sup -1 {( x )}}$,
$s(x) ~=~ {sin ( {x} )}$,
$t ~=~ phi ~=~ (1 + sqrt 5 )/2$.
..
.if t .ig
a(x) = arctan(x),
b(x) =  cubrt(x),
c(x) = cos(x),
d(x) = tan(x),
p = pi,
q(x) = x^2,
r(x) = arccos(x),
s(x) = sin(x),
t = phi = (1 + sqrt(5))/2.
..
The code may include assignments but does not include white space.
.SH FILES
.ta 31n
.F "/usr/lib/polyhedra/index	"
index file
.br
.F "/usr/lib/polyhedra/[0-9]*	"
description files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR poly (3),
.IR poly (7)
