.TH 3CC 9.1
.CT 1 prog_c
.SH NAME
3cc, 3as, 3ar, 3ld, 3nm, 3size, 3strip, cprs \- MAC-32 C compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B 3cc
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.PP
.B cprs
.I infile outfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I 3cc
is the C compiler for the MAC-32 microprocessor in the
Teletype DMD-5620 terminal.
Its default action is to compile programs to run under the
.IR mux (9.1)
environment.
.PP
The behavior of
.I 3cc
is similar to
.IR cc (1).
Here are listed only options with special behavior for 5620s.
.TP
.B -J
Compile the named programs, and link them for running stand-alone
on a 5620 terminal.
.TP
.B -O
Invoke an object-code improver (not recommended).
.TP
.B -m
Compile the named programs for ordinary (non-jerq) environments.
.TP
.BI -D name = def
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI -D name
Define the
.I name
to the preprocessor,
as if by
.LR #define .
If no definition is given, the name is defined as
.LR 1 .
The symbol
.B MUX
is predefined unless
.B -J
or
.B -m
is set.
.TP
.BI -I dir
.L #include
files whose names do not begin with 
.L /
are always sought first in the directory
of the
.I file
argument, then in directories named in
.B -I
options,
then in directories on a standard list, which includes
.FR /usr/jerq/include .
.PP
Associated object-code manipulating programs exist.
Their behavior is similar to the programs cited below.
The loader, assembler and archive program are System V
derivatives, and are slightly different in behavior;
see the System V manuals.
For typical uses, these differences are irrelevant.
The support programs include:
.TP
.I 3as
assembler, see
.IR as (1)
.PD 0
.TP
.I 3ar
archive, see
.IR ar (1)
(there is no 
.IR 3ranlib )
.TP
.I 3ld
link editor, see
.IR ld (1)
.TP
.I 3nm
name list, see
.IR nm (1),
doesn't work on archives
.TP
.I 3size
object code size, see
.IR size (1)
.TP
.I 3strip
symbol table; see
.IR strip (1).
.RB ( -r
is mandatory for
.IR mux -runnable
binaries.)
.PD
.PP
.I 3strip
has no
.B -g
flag; but
.I cprs
removes redundant symbol table entries while
copying
.I infile
to
.IR outfile .
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/jerq/lib/m32/optim
.TP
.F a.out
loaded output
.TP
.F /tmp/ctm*
temporary
.TP
.F /lib/cpp
preprocessor
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/lib/m32/comp
compiler
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/lib/m32/optim
optimizer
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/lib/*.o
runtime startoff, etc.
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/lib/libc.a
standard library
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/lib/libj.a
stand-alone graphics library
.F /usr/jerq/lib/libmj.a
mux-runnable graphics library (default)
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/lib/muxmap
loader I-file
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/include
standard directory for
.L #include
files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
System V manuals for
.I 3ar, 3ld, 3as
and
.I cprs
documentation.
