.TH FACED 9.5
.CT 1 sa_auto
.SH NAME
faced \- network face server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/net/face.go
.SH DESCRIPTION
The network face server provides a database of 48\(mu48 bit icons
and other facial representations.
It is implemented as a network file system similar to
.IR netfs (8).
.PP
The file system, conventionally mounted on
.BR /n/face ,
has a fixed three-level hierarchy.
The first level is a machine name,
the second level a user name,
and the third level a resolution.
Thus the file
.F /n/face/kwee/pjw/48x48x1
is the standard face icon (for user pjw) on machine kwee:
.LP
.ce 1000
.nf
.ps 6
.ft H
.tr x.
.tr -
.cs H 5
.vs 8u
-------------------xxxxxx-x---------------------
-----------------xxxxxxxxxxxxx------------------
----------------xxxxxxx-xxxxxxxx----------------
---------------xx-xxxxxxx-xxxxxxxx--------------
---------------xxxx-xxxxxxxxx-x-xxx-------------
--------------x---------xxxxxxxxxxxxx-----------
--------------x----------xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx-------
---------------------------xxxxx-xxxxxx---------
------------xx-------------xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx------
---------------------------x-x-xxxxxxxxxxx------
----------xx---------------xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx----
---------xxx----------------xxxxxxxxxxx-x-xx----
--------xx-------------------xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx---
--------xxx------------------xxxxxxxxxxxxxx-x---
-------xxxx-------------------xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx---
------xxxx---------------------xxxxxxxxxxxxxx---
------xxxxx--------------------xxxxxxxxxxxxxx---
-----xxxxx----x-x---------------xxxxxxxxxxxx----
----xxxxxxxxx-x-xxxxx-----xxxxxxx-xxxxxxxxxxx---
----xxxxxxx------xxxxx---xx--xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx---
---xxxxxxxxx---xxxx-xxxxxxxxx--x-xxxxxxxxxxxx---
---xxxxxxxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx---
---xxxxxxxxx-x-xx-x--x--xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx---
---xxxxxxx-x------x--x---xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx----
----xxxxxxx-----x--------x---x-xxxxxxxxxxxxx----
---xxxxxx-x---------x----xxx------xxxxxxxxxx----
------xx--x--------------xx-----xx-xxxxxxxx-----
----x-xxx----------x------xx-------xxxxxx-------
-------xx------x-xx--------xxxxxxxxx-xxxx-------
--------x----x-x-x-------x-xx-x--x-xxxxx--------
--------------------x-xxxxxxx-xxxxxxxxxx--------
-------xx----------xxxxxxxx-x---xxx-xxx---------
------xxx------------xxxxxxx--x-x-xxxxx---------
-------xx-----x-------xxxx-x-x-xxxx-xxxxxx------
--------x----------------xxx-x-x-xxxxxxxx-------
-------xxx-----xxx-x-x-xxx-xxx-x-x--xxxxx-------
--------xx-----x-x-x-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx-------
---------x----------------xxx--x-xxxxxxx--------
---------xx--------------xx-x-xxxx--xxx---------
-------------x-----xxxxxxxx-x-xx-xx-------------
---------------------xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx-----------
--------------x------------x-x-xx-x-------------
-------------------------x-x-xxxxx--------------
--------------x-----------xxxxxx-x--------------
----------------x--------x--x-xxxx--------------
--------------x-x-xxx-xxxxxxxxx-x---------------
----------------x---xxxxxxxxx-xxxx--------------
---------------x-xxxx-x-x-xxxxxxxx--------------
.tr --
.tr xx
.fi
.vs
.ps
.ce 0
.ft
Many local users also have 512\(mu512 byte high-resolution faces, named
.BR 512x512x8 .
Other resolutions may also be present for a particular face.
One-bit images are stored in the format used by
.IR icon (9.1);
eight-bit images are arrays of bytes.
The directories for machines sharing a user community, such as those on
a Datakit node, are linked together and given a name appropriate to the
community.  For example,
.B /n/face/kwee
is a link to
.BR /n/face/astro .
.PP
To access the face for a mail name
.IB machine ! uid
take the result of the first successful open from the following list of files:
.IP
.EX
/n/face/machine/uid/48x48x1
/n/face/misc./uid/48x48x1
/n/face/machine/unknown/48x48x1
/n/face/misc./unknown/48x48x1
.EE
.PP
The directory
.BR misc .\&
holds faces for generic users such as
.L root
and
.LR uucp .
The face server is made available on a machine by running
.B /usr/net/face.go
from
.IR rc (8).
.PP
The face server data is administered by a pair of
.SM ASCII
files that associate related
machines and faces.
The machine table
.L machine.tab
attaches machines to communities; in it the line
.IP
.B kwee=astro
.PP
puts machine
.L kwee
in community
.LR astro .
The people table
.L people.tab
associates a machine/user pair in the
face server with a file in one of the source directories
.F /n/kwee/usr/jerq/icon/face48
or
.FR /n/kwee/t0/face/512x512x8 .
Thus
.IP
.B astro/pjw=pjweinberger
.PP
causes the images stored in source files named
.L pjweinberger
to be available in the face server in directory
.BR /n/face/astro/pjw .
As well, each disk file used by the face server is linked
(by its original name) into the directory
.B /n/face/48x48x1
or
.B /n/face/512x512x8
for easy access to all the images.
.SH FILES
.TF /n/kwee/usr/net/face/machine.tab
.TP
.F /n/kwee/usr/jerq/icon/face48
directory of low resolution faces
.TP
.F /n/kwee/t0/face/512x512x8
directory of high resolution faces
.TP
.F /n/kwee/usr/net/face/people.tab
people/file equivalences
.TP
.F /n/kwee/usr/net/face/machine.tab
machine/community equivalences
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR netfs (8),
.IR face (9.7),
.IR icon (9.1),
.IR vismon (9.1)
.SH BUGS
After updating the tables, an indeterminate time may pass before the
new faces are available.
.br
All face server files are unwritable.
