.TH GRAPHDRAW 9.1
.CT 1 editor graphics
.SH NAME
graphdraw graphpic \- edit (combinatoric) graphs, convert to pic files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B graphdraw
[
.I file
]
.PP
.B graphpic
[
.I option ...
]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Graphdraw
interactively edits and displays undirected graphs, and can also be used
to display real-time animation of algorithms.
If a
.I file
is mentioned, the graph stored in that file is edited.
.PP
Click button 1 in command line (at bottom of window) to type in commands:
.TP \w'\f5!\fI\ program\ file\ \ \fR'u
.BI r " file"
Read file and display graph.
.PD0
.TP
.BI w " file"
Write current graph to file.
.TP
.BI cd " directory"
Change directory.
.TP
.BI ! " program file"
Execute animation
.I program
with
.I file
as input.
.TP
.B q
Quit.
.PD
.PP
Button 3 gets a menu of actions, which are
usually accomplished by pointing with button 1.
The parenthesized equivalents in the following list are explained
under `Algorithm animation'.
.TP 0
.B create vertex
Vertex is placed where button 1 is clicked.
.RB ( vc
.IR "x y" )
.PD 0
.TP
.B delete
Delete selected vertex and associated edges.
.RB ( vd
.IR i )
.TP
.B move
Selected vertex moves with mouse until button 1 is released.
.RB ( vm
.IR i )
.TP
.B copy
Copy of selected vertex and associated edges moves with mouse.
.RB ( vc
.IR "i x y" )
.TP
.B create/delete edge
Point to first endpoint and click button 1.
Point to second endpoint and click button 1.
Continue selecting second endpoints with button 1.
To unselect first endpoint, click button 2.
.RB ( ec
.IB "i j " /
.B ed
.IR "i j" )
.TP
.B restart
Click button 1 to clear screen and discard current graph.
.RB ( pr )
.TP
.B standard window
Restart and reshape window to standard size,
in which the drawing area is square and as large as possible.
.TP
.B small/large/no grid
Impose/remove visible grid to which all new coordinates will be rounded.
.TP
.B exit
Click button 1 to confirm.
.TP
.B labels menu
.RS
.TP
.B label vertex
Select vertex with button 1.
Current label appears on command line.
To accept it, click button 1.
Otherwise, type in new label and hit return.
.RB ( vl 
.IR "i w" )
.TP
.B number vertices
Vertex labels are set to the consecutive integers 1,2,...;
this is the default.
.RB ( vn )
.TP
.B label edge
Default is
.LR 1 .
.RB ( el
.IR "i j w" )
.HP
.B show/hide vertex labels
.RB ( vs , 
.BR vh )
.HP
.B show/hide edge labels
.RB ( es ,
.BR eh )
.TP
.B turn Euclidean edge labels on/off
Distances are measured in pixels.
.RB ( ee )
.TP
.B show/hide sum of edges
.RE
.TP
.B graphics menu
.RS
.TP
.B light/heavy/empty/full/invisible vertex
Select style from menu with button 3; select vertices to change with button 1.
The default is 
.LR light .
.RB ( vg
.IR "i c" )
.HP
.B light/heavy edge
.RB ( eg
.IR "i j c" )
.RE
.TP
.B macros menu
Arrange for sets of vertices to act together.
Actions on any vertex in the set apply to the whole set.
Copying duplicates edges internal to the set.
Creating an edge between vertexes in two different sets
creates edges from every vertex in one set to every
vertex in the other (bipartite subgraph).
.RS
.TF unselect\ set
.TP
.B select set
Sweep a rectangle around the set with button 1.
Dissociate conflicting sets.
.TP
.B unselect set
Dissociate set containing selected vertex.
.TP
.B shrink/expand set
Selected set is shrunk/expanded about its center.
.TP
.B reshape set
Selected set is redrawn in swept rectangle.
.TP
.B complete/disconnect subgraph
Create/delete edges between every pair of vertices in a set.
.RE
.PP
.I Graphpic
is a filter which, when applied to a file in graphdraw format, outputs
.I pic
code for the graph.
The options are:
.TP
.B -v
Print vertex labels.
.TP
.B -e
Print edge labels.
.TP
.B -i
Optimize for imagen printer (default is d202).
.PD
.SS File format
Graphs are stored as adjacency lists.
.PP
First line:
.I n m t,
where
.I n
is the number of vertices,
.I m
is the number of edges, and
.I t
is an optional graph type.
The only legal type is the default type
.B u
(undirected).
.PP
For each vertex, an initial line:
.I d w x y c,
where
.I d
is the degree of the vertex,
.I w
is its label,
.I x
and
.I y
are its coordinates in the window, and
.I c
is an optional graphics code,
.BR L =light
(default),
.BR H =heavy
(circled dot),
.BR F =full
(large bullet),
.BR E =empty
(empty circle),
.B I =invisible.
Window coordinates will be scaled to fit when graph is read in.
.PP
After the initial line follow
.I d
lines for the vertex's edges:
.I i w c,
where
.I i
is the index (1 to
.IR n)
of the other endpoint,
.I w
is the edge label, and
.I c
is an optional graphics code, 
.B L
or
.BR H .
.PD
.SS Algorithm animation
The typed command
.BI ! "program file"
causes the standard output of
.I program
to be captured by the host and
interpreted as commands to
.I graphdraw.
The resulting movie
can be killed or temporarily halted from the the terminal
by clicking button 2 and choosing the desired option from the resulting menu.
.PP
Animation codes (defined parenthetically with menu items above)
appear one per line.
Their arguments are:
.I i,
index of a vertex (normally the 
.IR i th
to be created);
.I x, y,
integer coordinates in the range 0 to
.BR maxcoord ;
.I w
a label; or
.I c,
a graphic code.
.PP
Other animation codes are
.PD0
.TP \w'\f5pm\fI\ message\ \ \fR'u
.BI pw " n"
Change the value of
.B maxcoord to
.I n.
Default is 10,000.
.TP
.BI vl " i w"
Give vertex
.I i
the label
.I w.
.TP
.BI pd " t"
Delay program for
.I t
clicks of the 60Hz clock.
.TP
.B ps
Halt program until user clicks button 2 to continue.
.TP
.BI pm " message"
Print
.I message
on command line.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR dag (1),
.IR pic (1)
.SH BUGS
It is impossible to move or reshape a
.I graphdraw
layer, except via 
.LR "standard window" .
