.TH JX 9.1
.CT 1 comm_term
.SH NAME
jx \- 5620 execution and stdio interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jx
.I file
[
.I argument ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Jx
downloads the program in
.I file
to the terminal or layer on its controlling tty
and runs it there, simulating standard I/O functions of
.IR stdio (3).
.I Jx
works either stand-alone or in a layer.
.PP
The
.B stdout
and
.B stderr
streams, if directed to the controlling terminal,
will be squirreled away during
execution and copied to the terminal
after the down-loaded program exits.
.PP
Programs to be run by
.I jx
should include
.B <jerqio.h>
and call
.B exit()
upon termination in order to
restart the default terminal program.
Programs to be run stand-alone
should be compiled with
the
.B -J
option of
.IR 3cc (9.1).
No special options are required for running in a layer.
.PP
.IR Stdio (3)
functions available under
.I jx
are
.IP
.EX
.nr f \w'freopen  '
.ta +\nfu +\nfu +\nfu +\nfu +\nfu 
getc	putc	fopen	popen	printf	fread
getchar	putchar	freopen	pclose	sprintf	fwrite
fgets	puts	fclose		fprintf
	fputs	access
	fflush
.EE
.PP
Unlike in
.IR stdio (3),
.I getc
and
.I putc
are functions, not macros.
.I Printf
has only
.BR %d ,
.BR %s,
.BR %c,
.BR %o ,
and
.BR %x.
.B %u
prints an unsigned decimal number.
.B %D
prints an unsigned long decimal number.
.PP
Since
.I jx
uses
.IR sendchar ,
.IR sendnchars ,
and
.IR rcvchar ,
.I jx
programs should avoid these,
and use only the standard I/O routines.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/jerq/include/blitio.h
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/include/jerqio.h
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/lib/sysint
standard I/O interpreter
.TP
.F $HOME/.jxout
saved standard output
.TP
.F $HOME/.jxerr
saved standard diagnostic output
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR request (9.2),
.IR stdio (3)
.SH BUGS
Keyboard standard input doesn't work; use
.IR kbdchar ;
see
.IR request (9.2).
.br
Stand-alone programs do not receive arguments.
