.TH MENUHIT 9.3
.CT 2 comm_term
.SH NAME
menuhit, hmenuhit \- present user with menu and get selection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <jerq.h>
.PP
.B int menuhit(m, b)
.B Menu *m;
.PP
.B #include <menu.h>
.PP
.B NMitem *hmenuhit(m, b)
.B NMenu *m;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Menuhit
presents the user with a menu specified by the Menu pointer
.I m
and returns an integer indicating the selection made,
or
\-1
for no selection.
The integer
.I b
specifies which button to use for the interaction: 1, 2 or 3.
.I Menuhit
assumes that the button is already depressed when it is called.
The user makes a selection by lifting the button when the cursor
points at the desired selection;
lifting the button outside the menu indicates no selection.
.PP
Menus can be built in two ways, either as an array of
strings or with a generator function:
.IP
.EX
typedef struct {
	char	**item;		/* string array, ending with 0 */
	char	*(*generator)();	/* used if item == 0 */
	short	prevhit;		/* offset from top of last select */
	short	prevtop;		/* topmost item displayed */
} Menu;

char *menutext[]={"Item 0", "Item 1", "Item 2", 0};
Menu stringsmenu={ menutext };
.EE
.LP
or
.IP
.EX
char *menugen();
Menu genmenu={ (char **)0, menugen };
.EE
.PP
The generator function is passed an integer parameter
.IR n ,
and must return the string for the
.IR n th
menu entry, or 0 if
.I n
is beyond the number of entries in the menu.
The
.IR n 's
may come in any order but the result is only needed until the next call.
.PP
Regardless of the method of generation, characters with the
.B 0200
bit set are regarded as fill characters.
For example, the string
.L
"\e240X"
will appear in the menu as a right-justified
.L X
.RL ( 040
is the
.SM ASCII
space character).
Menu strings without fill characters are drawn centered in the menu.
.PP
The fields
.I prevhit
and
.I prevtop
are used to guide which items are displayed and which item
the mouse points to initially.
They should be nonnegative.
Both
.I menuhit
and
.I hmenuhit
may choose to ignore these fields.
.PP
.I Hmenuhit
supports hierarchical menus.
Submenus are denoted graphically by a right-pointing arrow.
Moving the cursor onto the arrow causes the submenu to appear.
Hierarchical menus are built of
.BR NMitem s
defined as
.IP
.EX
typedef struct NMenu {
	char	*text;
	char	*help;
	struct NMenu *next;
	void	(*dfn)(), (*bfn)(), (*hfn)();
	long	data;
} NMitem;
.EE
.PP
The
.B text
field is shown to the user;
characters with the
.B 0200
bit set behave as above.
The contents of the
.B help
field are shown whenever the user holds down button 1 at the same time
as the button specified by the parameter
.IR b .
If
.I b
is 1,
you get help all the time.
The
.B next
field is the address of a submenu or
.B "(NMenu *)0"
if there is none.
The two functions
.B (*dfn)()
and
.B (*bfn)()
support dynamic submenus.
.I Dfn
is called just before the submenu is invoked.
Its argument is the current menu item.
Similarly,
.I bfn
is called with the current menu item just after the submenu has finished.
.I Hfn
is called only when a menu item is selected;
its argument is the current menu item.
The menu has been undrawn before
.I hfn
is called.
The return value from
.I hmenuhit
is the menu item selected or
.B "(NMenu *)0"
if none was selected.
To permit communication between menu functions and the calling program,
the
.I data
field is available for the user;
it is ignored by
.IR hmenuhit .
.PP
An
.BR NMenu ,
like a
.BR Menu ,
may be built by list or by generator.
An
.B NMenu
generator takes an integer parameter
.I n
and returns a pointer to an
.LR NMitem .
In either case,
the list of menu items is terminated by an item with a 0
.B text
field.
.SH EXAMPLES
Simple code to use
.B stringsmenu
declared above:
.IP
.EX
.ta \w'case -1: 'u
switch(menuhit(&stringsmenu, 3)){
case 0:	item_0();
	break;
case 1:	item_1();
	break;
case 2:	item_2();
	break;
case -1:	noselection();
	break;
}
.EE
.PP
To provide a submenu for item 1:
.IP
.DT
.EX
NMitem *gen();	
NMenu i1list = { 0, gen };
void item_2(), item_3();
NMitem imenu = {
	{ "item 1", "item 1 help", &i1list },
	{ "item 2", "item 2 help", 0, 0, 0, item_2 },
	{ "item 3", 0, 0, 0, 0, item_3 },
	{ 0 }
};
NMenu b3 = { imenu };
(void)hmenuhit(&b3, 3);
.EE
