.TH MOVIE 9.1
.CT 1 graphics  writing_troff
.SH NAME
movie, stills \- algorithm animation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B movie
[
.B -t
.I termprog
]
[
.B -m
.I memory
]
[
.I file
]
.PP
.B stills
[
.I files ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Movie
converts a `movie script'
into an internal representation, then displays it in a window on a
Teletype 5620, AT&T630, or X-11 system (depending on which version has been compiled).
If the filename is of the form
.IB file .s ,
.I movie
creates the intermediate form in
.IB file .i ,
which will be used in subsequent calls if it is more recent than
.IB file .s ,
The options are:
.TP \w'\f5-t\ \fItermprog\ 'u
.BI -t " termprog
Load
.I termprog
instead of the default terminal program.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI -m mem
Use
.I mem
bytes of terminal memory instead of the default.
.PP
In the terminal, button 1 stops and starts the movie;
button 2 adjusts view sizes and selects clicks;
button 3 sets various parameters.
.SS Movie scripts
A movie consists of multiple independent views,
each presented as a rectangular sub-window.
If no 
.B view
statements appear, there is a single implicit view
.BR def.view .
Any text or geometrical object may be labeled with a name and colon.
Labels and coordinates are local to views.
A recurring label erases the previous
object with that label.
.PP
Comments follow #; blank lines are ignored.
.HP
.B text
.I options x y string
.br
Text is centered and medium size by default;  options: one of
.B "center
.B ljust
.B rjust
.B above
.BR below ,
and one of
.BR "small
.B medium
.B big
.BR bigbig .
A leading quote is stripped from
.IR string ,
as is a trailing quote if a leading one is present.
.PD 0
.HP
.BI line
.I "options x1 y1 x2 y2
.br
Lines are solid by default;  options: one of
.B "fat
.B fatfat
.B dotted
.B dashed
and one of
.B "->
.B <-
.BR <-> .
.HP
.BI box
.I "options xmin ymin xmax ymax
.br
A box may be
.BR fill ed.
.HP
.BI circle 
.I "options x1 y1 radius
.br
Radius is measured in the
.I x
dimension.
A circle may be
.BR fill ed.
.TP
.BI erase " label
Erase an object explicitly.
.TP
.B clear
Erase all objects currently in the current view.
.TP
.BI click " optional-name
Place a mark in the intermediate with this name;
clicks are used to control stepping in a movie or to define frames
for a set of stills.
.TP
.BI view " name
.br
Associate subsequent objects with this view,
until changed again.
.PD
.PP
.I Stills
converts selected frames of a movie into
commands for
.IR pic (1).
Commands for
.I stills
begin with
.B .begin stills
and end with
.B .end
.BR stills .
.SH FILES
All files are in
.BR /usr/lib/movie .
.TF stills.awk
.TP
.F develop
Shell script to control conversion from script language to internal form.
.TP
.F fdevelop
C program that does the work.
.TP
.F stills.awk
Awk program to process stills language into
.IR pic (1).
.TP
.F anim
Host end of the animation system.
.TP
.F animterm
terminal end.
.TP
.F newer
Test whether one file is newer than another.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR flicks (9.1),
.IR pic (1)
.br
J. L. Bentley and B. W. Kernighan,
`A System for Algorithm Animation',
this manual, Volume 2
.SH BUGS
The 630 can only handle 65000 bytes of memory.
