.TH PED 9.1
.CT 1 editor writing_troff graphics
.SH NAME
ped, tped \- picture editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ped
[
.B -f
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B tped
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ped
is an interactive drawing program for
5620 terminals.
A
.I file
argument is equivalent to
an 
.L e
command as described below.
Most features of
.I ped
are menu-controlled and self-explanatory; further details
are in the reference.
.PP
Button 1 selects actions
from a permanent menu and to draw or pick up an object.
Button 3 terminates drawing actions or changes
the permanent menu.
Button 2 causes the permanent menu to revert to
.LR basic .
.PP
The operation of
.I ped
is split between host and terminal.
When a file is first read, it is kept on
the host;
.L bring in
gets it to the 5620.
.PP
Option
.B -f
causes
.I ped
to display all text in one size to save time and space.
.PP
Some of the actions on permanent menus (switched by button 3)
are described below.
The last action is usually remembered and may be
executed repeatedly
until another is selected.
Thus, for example, one can fill many polygons with
one button click per polygon.
Actions marked
.L (t)
in the menu toggle on and off.
.PP
.B basic
menu
.RS
.TF rotate
.TP
.B blitblt
Copy part of the screen to file
.FR BLITBLT ,
see
.IR blitblt (9.1).
.TP
.B exit
Leave
.IR ped ,
requires a confirming push of button 3.
.TP
.B markers
Make visible the defining points of objects;
these are the only points sensitive to selection by button 1.
.RE
.TP
.B type comm
Take input from the keyboard.
.RS
.TF rotate
.TP
.BI e " file"
Begin editing
.IR file,
remember its name, as in
.IR ed (1).
Commands
.B f
(file name),
.B r
(read),
.B w
(write),
behave similarly.
.TP
.B qq
Same as
.B exit
in
.B basic
menu; altered files will be saved in
.FR ped.save .
.TP
.B cd
Change working directory.
.TP
.B pwd
Print working directory.
.TP
newline
Reactivate mouse.
.TP
.BI u " string"
Remember
.I string
as a shell command for the selection
.L user oper
in menu
.LR refine.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.B ch size
.PD0
.RS
.TF rotate
.TP
.B rotate
displays a vector from the center (of the bounding box) of an object to the
selected point.
The object is rotated and scaled to bring that point to
a second selected position.
.TP
.B h-elong
Change aspect ratio.
The inverse is
.BR v-elong .
.RE
.PD
.TP
.B move
Button 3 cancels a move or copy.
To help untangle overlapping objects, the cancellation
does not take place until returning to the basic menu.
.RS
.PD0
.TF rotate
.TP
.B attach
Move an open polygon (a broken line)
and hook it to the end of another.
.TP
.B join
Connect the ends of two polygons with a new line.
.TP
.B link
Cause multiple polygons to move and be filled as one
(useful for making holes).
Linked polygons must all be open or all be closed.
.TP
.B match
Move objects to bring selected points together.
.TP
.B center
Move objects to bring their centers together.
.TP
.B family/pt
Select objects to be moved or deleted together.
.RE
.PD
.TP
.B draw
Button 1 fixes a point;
button 3 terminates an object.
.PD0
.RS
.TF rotate
.TP
.B text
Type one or more lines terminated by an empty line.
.TP
.B grid
Snap points to locations on
a grid, which indexes through settings FMC (fine, medium, coarse, none).
.TP
.B fix sz
Set option
.BR -f .
.TP
.B family/bx
Sweep a box around objects to be moved or deleted together.
.RE
.PD
.TP
.B reshape
.RS
.TF rotate
.TP
.B formal
Adjust nearly rectangular lines to be perfectly so.
.TP
.B spline
A piecewise parabolic fit tangent to the midpoints of
a broken line.
.TP
.B corner
Make a guiding point of a spline to be multiple \- a corner
in an otherwise smooth curve.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.B refine
.RS
.TF rotate
.TP
.B adj t
Left-justify, right-justify, or center text.
.TP
.B edit text
Display text at the top, where button 1 selects a
position for inserting by typing or deleting by backspacing.
Button 3 concludes the editing.
.RE
.PD
.TP
.B shade
Assign textures for filling polygons, circles, or spline-bounded regions.
Curves are filled schematically on the 5620, but accurately on
the host.
.TP
.B color
Assign colors for display on other devices.
.TP
.B remote
Perform all editing on the host using the terminal
as a display device only.
.PP
.I Tped
converts files of graphic information produced by
.I ped
into typesetting requests for
.IR troff (1).
The options are:
.TP
.BI -T dev
Prepare output for particular devices known to
.IR troff :
.B -Taps
or
.BR -T202 .
.PD 0
.TP
.B -b
Place a box around each picture.
.PD
.PP
The input may be straight
.I ped
output or may be arbitrary text files with
.I ped
output embedded between
pairs of delimiting lines:
.PD0
.IP
.BI .GS " \fR[\fI size \fR]\fI"
ped file
\&. . .
.B .GE
.LP
or in another file:
.IP
.BI .GS " \fR[\fI size \fR]\fI pedfilename"
.PD
.PP
The optional size gives width or height:
.BI w= inches
or
.BI h= inches.
.SH FILES
.F .pederr
.br
.F ped.save
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR cip (9.1),
.IR paint (9.1),
.IR brush (9.1), 
.IR graphdraw (9.1),
.IR pic (1), 
.IR ideal (1),
.IR blitblt (9.1)
.br
T. Pavlidis,
`PED Users Manual',
this manual, Volume 2
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages from the host
are placed in file
.BR .pederr .
.SH BUGS
Pictures may spill into the menu or message areas.
.br
Some experimentation with
.I tped
printout parameters
may be needed to
obtain satisfactory results.
