.TH STRING 9.3
.CT 2 comm_term
.SH NAME
string, defont, strwidth, infont, outfont, getfont \- text and font operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <jerq.h>
.br
.B #include <font.h>
.PP
.B Point string(ft, s, b, p, f)
.B "Font *ft; char *s; Bitmap *b; Point p; Code f;
.PP
.B extern Font defont;
.PP
.B "int strwidth(ft, s) Font *ft; char *s;
.PP
.B "Font *infont(inch) int (*inch)();
.PP
.B "int outfont(ft, ouch) Font *ft; int (*ouch)();
.PP
.B void ffree(ft) Font *ft;
.PP
.B #include <jerqio.h>
.PP
.B "Font *getfont(file) char *file;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I String
draws the null-terminated string
.I s
using characters from font
.I ft
in Bitmap
.I b
at Point
.IR p ,
with Code
.IR f .
The return value is the location of the first character
.I after
.IR s ;
passed to another call to
.IR string ,
the two strings will be concatenated.
The characters are drawn such that the
.B origin
point of the bounding rectangle of a maximum height character
lies at
.IR p .
Therefore, a character drawn on the screen at (0,0)
will occupy the upper-leftmost character position on the screen.
.I String
draws characters as they are in the font.
No special action is taken for control characters such as tabs or newlines.
.PP
The global
.I defont
is the name of the standard font (not a pointer to it).
.PP
.I Strwidth
returns the width in pixels
of the null-terminated string
.IR s ,
interpreted in the Font
.IR *ft .
The height of a character string is simply
.BI ft ->height.
.PP
.I Infont
creates a font by reading the byte-wise binary representation
returned by successive calls to
.IR inch .
It returns 0
on error.
.I Inch
must return successive bytes of the Unix file representation of the font,
and \-1
at end-of-file.
.I Outfont
calls the routine
.I ouch
to write successive bytes of the binary representation of font
.IR ft .
It returns
\-1
on error, as must
.I ouch .
For programs running under
.IR jx ,
.I getfont
returns a pointer to a font read from the named
.IR file ,
essentially by calling
.I infont
with argument routine
.IR getc .
It returns 0
on error.
.I Ffree
frees a font allocated by
.I infont
or
.IR getfont .
