.TH WINDOWS 9.1
.CT 1 comm_term
.SH NAME
windows, jps, reshape \- create and initialize windows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B windows
[
.I ox oy cx cy command ...
]
.PP
.B jps
.PP
.B reshape
[
.B -r
]
.I x y
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each set of arguments,
.I windows
makes a
.IR mux (9.1)
layer with rectangle
.RI "Rect(" "ox, oy, cx, cy" ")"
(see
.IR types (9.5)),
then executes the
.I command
therein.
The
.I command
may be null ("").
Any number of layers may be specified;  each
.I command
and its arguments must be given
as a single argument to
.I windows.
.PP
In windows that are not expected to be reused and do not need a
shell, it is good practice to invoke the
.I command
with
.BR exec ;
see
.IR sh (1).
.PP
.I Jps
prints the rectangle coordinates of each window and the arguments (if
any) with which it was down-loaded,
to help set up the
.IR windows
command.
.PP
.I Reshape
adjusts its layer so that the display
rectangle inside the border is
.I x
by
.I y
pixels.
Under option
.B -r
it adjusts the width/height ratio to
.I x/y,
with the new shape as large as will fit inside the old.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR mux (9.1), 
.IR ruler (9.1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Windows
may adjust rectangles to a minimum size or to stay within
the usual layer bounds (8 pixels inside the screen edge).
.br
Layer creation can fail if there
are no process slots or memory left in the terminal.
.br
.I Reshape
clips a layer that is too big
and does nothing if the layer is too small
or if there is not enough memory.
.SH BUGS
.I Jps
reports what has been downloaded to the 5620; usually this
is not the same as the command that must be used in
.I windows
to cause the download.
.br
.I Reshape
destroys the contents of the
layer; it should work elsewhere.
