.TH AVW 7 purdy
.CT 1 inst_info
.SH NAME
w, fp, ft, fd, rad \(mi aviation weather
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/ken/bin/w
[
.I station ...
]
.PP
.B /usr/ken/bin/fp
[ 
.I obj ...
]
.PP
.B /usr/ken/bin/ft
[
.I obj ...
]
.PP
.B /usr/ken/bin/fd
[
.I obj ...
]
.PP
.B /usr/ken/bin/rad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I W
looks up each of its arguments in a set of
weather files.
The weather files are constantly maintained by
a daemon that reads the National Weather Service
Wire.
If
.I w
is called with no arguments,
it reads the standard input and looks up each line.
.PP
The active weather files are:
.TP
.B AA
airport name and runway direction and length
.PD0
.TP
.B NT
NOTAM \(mi Notices to Airmen \(mi special cautions at airports
.TP
.B FT
24-hour terminal forcasts at airports issued three times a day
.TP
.B SA
hourly surface observations taken at airports
.TP
.B FD
daily winds aloft forcasts taken at certain reporting points
.TP
.B FP
daily area forcasts taken at certain reporting points
.TP
.B SD
hourly radar precipitation taken at certain reporting points
.PD
.PP
If
.I w
is given an airport name,
it will print the latest AA,
NT,
FT,
and SA data.
The other files are printed by providing the reporting point name.
In most cases this is a meaningless string of characters that are
supplied by other programs.
.PP
.I Fp
takes a series of navagation stations as arguments;
see
.IR av (A)
for a description of these objects.
If
.I fp
has no argument,
it uses the default
.L here
which specifies Murray Hill, NJ.
If
.I fp
is given one argument,
it will print the name of the nearest
FP (area forecast) station to the argument.
If
.I fp
is given two arguments,
it will print the names of all FP
stations that are nearest to some point
on the great circle route between the objects.
If more than two arguments are given
then the stations are printed for each pair of arguments.
The output of
.I fp
is meant to be piped into
.IR w .
.PP
.I Ft
and
.I fd
behave the same as
.I fp
but print the station names reporting
winds aloft and terminal forcasts respectively.
.PP
.I Rad
creates a radar summary weather map and
prints the map on the laser printer.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/ken/lib/obj
.TP
.F /usr/weather/*
weather files
.TP
.F /usr/ken/lib/obj
navigation aids
.TP
.F /usr/weather/rd
weather wire daemon
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR av (7)
