.TH BRIDGE 6 alice
.CT 1 games
.SH NAME
bridge \- card game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/bridge
[
.I arg ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Bridge
manages bridge games among four players.
A master process mediates the
flow of information between player processes.
Each player process is either a `robot' player or a
cursor-controlled screen
interface with a human player.
.PP
If several humans wish to play each invokes
.I bridge
and a rendezvous protocol hooks them together
in a common game.
Once the game is set up
.I bridge
displays a diagram
similar to those in newspaper
bridge columns.
.PP
Bids are coded
.B p
for pass,
.B d
for double,
.B 3n
for three notrump,
and so on.
Plays are coded
.B c3
for the club three,
.B ht
for the heart ten, and so on.
A menu of common commands appears at the
bottom of the screen; further help may be obtained by typing
.BR + .
.PP
Arguments take several forms:
.de X1
.TP
.B \\$1
.PD 0
.TP
.B \\$2
..
.de X2
.TP
.BI \\$1 " \\$2"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \\$3 \\$4
..
.X2 \-h "nhumans" humans= nhumans
Join (or set up and join) a game with indicated number of human players.
.X2 \-s "seed" seed= seed
Initialize the random number generator.  Useful for duplicate play.
.X2 \-f "file" deck= file
Take the initial shuffled card deck from named file.
.X2 \-r "file" script= file
Make a record of the game in the named file.
.X2 \-d "dealership" dlr= dealership
Specify dealership with a one-letter direction code.
.X2 \-v "vulnerability" vuln= vulnerability
Specify vulnerability with one of these codes:
.B none
.B both
.BR n - s
.BR e - w .
.X1 -t tough
Do not display bidding history on player's screen.
.PD
.SH FILES
.TF /tmp/brdg.*
rendezvous files
.TP
.F /etc/termcap
.TP
.F DEBUG
recipient of debugging messages
.SH "SEE ALSO"
J. A. Reeds and L. A. Shepp,
.I Bridge: An exciting new card game,
TM 11217-840119-02,
TM 11218-840119-01.
.SH BUGS
Occasionally the whole program goes dead.
.br
The robots' bridge technique has subtle bugs.
