.TH CITE 1
.CT 1 writing_troff
.SH NAME
cite \- process citations in a document
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cite
[
.B -s
]
[
.B -u
]
[
.I files
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cite
is a
.IR troff (1)
preprocessor for forward and backward references.
It copies the
.I files
or the standard input to standard output,
observing lines of the forms
.IP
\f5\&.CD "\fIkey\f5" "\fIdefinition\f5"
.br
\&.CU "\fIkey\f5"\fItext
.EE
.LP
Each
.B .CD
line is remembered.
A later
.B .CU
with the same
.I key
will be replaced by the
.I definition
for that key; the
.I text
will be copied verbatim.
If no definition is yet available for a
.B .CU
reference, the key will be replaced by
.BR ZZ .
.PP
At the location of each
.B .CD
command,
.I cite
causes 
.I troff
to send the line (with macro substitutions)
to the standard error file.
The resulting  definitions may be included at the beginning of another
.I cite-troff
run, effectively eliminating forward references.
Unfortunately, the definition file 
may contain obsolete definitions (included
from a previous run) plus other
.I troff
messages.
These should be deleted using option
.BR -s .
.PP
The options are
.TP
.B -s
Place only the latest definitions
on the standard output; shunt
.RI non -cite
data to standard error.
.TP
.B -u
Place on standard error a list of undefined or unused citations.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
cite file.defs file | troff -ms 2>temp.defs >/dev/null 
cite -s temp.defs >file.defs
cite file.defs file | troff -ms 2>temp.defs | lp
.EE
.br
.ns
.IP
Run
.I cite-troff
to collect updated definitions in
.BR temp.defs .
.br
Eliminate old definitions, putting updates back in
.BR file.defs .
.br
Run
.IR cite-troff
again, using latest definitions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR troff (1)
