.TH CONFIG 5
.CT 1 sa_nonmortals
.SH NAME
config \- system configuration files
.SH DESCRIPTION
These files are used as input by
.IR config (A).
Except as noted,
they are kept in
.FR /usr/sys/conf .
.PP
The file named
.F files
lists the kernel source files.
Each line consists of a filename
(relative to
.FR /usr/sys )
followed by some magic words.
For example:
.IP
.L
sys/acct.c	standard
.PP
is a file used by any version of the system;
.IP
.L
dev/uba.c	standard device-driver
.PP
is also always used,
and contains device register references
(which may require special compilation hacks);
.IP
.L dev/ju.c	optional ju device-driver
.PP
is included only if the
.L ju
device is expected;
.IP
.L dev/ttyld.c	optional tty pseudo-device
.PP
is included only if the
.L tty
pseudo-device is requested.
.PP
The file
.F devices
describes possible device drivers,
file system handlers,
and line disciplines;
the information is used to generate
handler dispatch tables.
It consists of lines with the following blank-separated fields:
.PP
Type of handler:
.IP
.B device
for character devices
.PD0
.IP
.B stream-device
.IP
.B  block-device
.IP
.B file-system
.IP
.B line-discipline
.PD
.IP
If the type is preceded by the word
.L standard
.RI ( e.g.
.LR "standard block-device" ),
the handler is always included;
otherwise,
it is included only if requested.
.PP
Table index:
major device number,
file system type,
or line discipline number.
.PP
Driver name:
used in
.FR files
and
.FR conf .
.PP
.I Config
writes a header file
.IB name .h
for each device;
if that device
is configured, then the upper case
.I NAME
is defined to be
the number of devices
of that type.
.IP
Entry point name.
Used as a prefix for data structure
and driver entry points.
.IP
Entry points.
.br
For block devices:
some of
.BR open ,
.BR close ,
.BR strategy ,
.BR dump ,
.BR B_TAPE
(the last puts the flag
.L B_TAPE
in the
.L d_flags
entry in the block device switch).
.br
For character devices:
.BR open ,
.BR close ,
.BR read ,
.BR write ,
.BR ioctl ,
.BR reset .
.br
For stream devices
and line disciplines,
.B info
should be specified.
.br
For file system handlers:
.BR put ,
.BR get ,
.BR free ,
.BR updat ,
.BR read ,
.BR write ,
.BR trunc ,
.BR stat ,
.BR nami ,
.BR mount ,
.BR ioctl .
.PP
As a special case,
lines beginning with
.L :
are copied intact to
.FR conf.c .
This can be used for hacks like
.IP
.L
: int mem_no = 3;	/* major device number of memory special file */
.PP
Addenda to
.F files
and
.F devices
specific to a particular machine
may be kept in
.BI /usr/sys/ machine /files
and
.BI /usr/sys/ machine /devices .
The addenda are treated as if appended to the
general files.
