.TH COSPAN 1 
.CT 1 prog_other
.SH NAME
cospan, psr \- coordination-specification analyzer
and pretty-printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cospan
[
.I option ...
]
.I file
.PP
.B psr
[
.I option ... 
]
.I file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cospan
analyzes the behavior of coordinating systems.
Three types of input
.I file
are distinguished by suffix:
.TP
.B .sr
The normal case.
The file contains
.SM S/R
specifications as described in the reference, possibly including
.IR cpp (8)
commands, to be compiled into
.TP
.B .c
C code, which is compiled and linked into
.TP
.B .an
executable analysis program.
.PP
The options are 
.TP
.BI -D name = value
.PD0
.TP
.BI -D name
.TP
.BI -U name
.TP
.BI -I directory
Same as in
.IR cc (1).
.PD
.TP
.B -v
Produce verbose syntax error messages.
.TP
.B -p
Suppress file-name/line-number information
for embedded C code.
.TP
.B -i
Produce an implementation version of
the C code.
.TP
.B -m
Produce a merged version of 
the C code.
.TP
.B -n
Compile no transition checks (except deadlocks). 
By default, the analysis gives a warning on the first stability violation
and aborts on non-semi-deterministic resolutions.
.TP
.B -b
Use C built-in (machine-dependent)
integer division operations.
By default, an
.SM S/R
integer division
.IB i / j
results in the greatest integer not higher then the
mathematical quotient, and the remainder operation
.IB i " mod " j
yields a result in the range
.RI 0... j \-1.
.TP
.BI -C opt
Pass option
.BI - opt
to the C compiler.
.TP
.BI -h size
Set the state hash table size to the next prime after
.I size ;
default is 32693.
.TP
.BI -H size
Similar to 
.BI \-h size,
except that states which produce hash collisions are ignored.
.TP
.BI -t secs
Abort analysis after
the specified number of seconds.
.TP
.BI -V s
Produce verbose analysis output messages.
The string
.I s,
by default
.LR awel ,
specifies message types:
.I advice, warning, error,
or
.I list.
.TP
.B -r
Restart previously aborted analysis.
Recovery is possible in cases of hangups, interrupts,
software termination signals (due to a kill command),
timer alarms, no-space conditions, and aborts due to
.B -c
or 
.B -L
requests.
.TP
.B -d
Abort on deadlocks.
By default, the analysis gives a warning on the first deadlock and reports
the number of deadlocks in the analysis summary.
.TP
.B -s
Abort on stability failures.
.TP
.B -l
List analysis on standard output.
.TP
.BI -T
Time each translation and execution step.
.PD0
.TP
.BI -L number,number
List analysis, reporting states
in the given range, and abort after searching the upper bound. 
.TP
.BI -c number
Check each back-edge in the
component identified by the given
.I number
and abort analysis.
.PP
.TP
.BI CC= name
Use an alternate C compiler; default is 
.BR CC=cc .
.PD
.PP
The order of the arguments is arbitrary, and several options may 
be combined to a single argument, provided that option
values are terminated by white space.
Options can be preset by defining the environment variable
.BR COSPANOPT  .
.PP
.I Psr
is a pretty-printer for
.SM S/R
specifications.
It places
.IR troff (1)
or
.I nroff
output on the standard output.
.PP
The options, which may be reset between
.I files,
are:
.TP
.B -d
Show current date in page footer.
.TP
.B -m
show file modification time in footer (default).
.TP
.BI -n N
Number every
.IR N th
line; default is 
.BR -n0,
no numbering. 
.TP
.BI -s N
Set type size 
to
.I N
points, vertical spacing to
.IR N /60
inch, and tab stops every 
.IR N /20
inch.
.TP
.BI -w N
Set the page width
to
.IR N 
(in
.I troff
notation).
.PD0
.TP
.BI -f F
Use the 
.I troff
font
.I F
and its italic, bold, and bold-italic counterparts. 
Known fonts are
Bembo, CW, Euro, Futura, H, Hcond, Memphis, Optima, PA, R.
.TP
.BI -. request
Issue a 
.I troff
request before printing the next
.IR file .
Multiple requests may be given.
.TP
.BI -T name
As in
.I troff.
Applies to all
.IR files .
If
.I name
is omitted, 
.I troff
input is written on standard output.
.PD
.PP
.I Psr
sets the escape character to 
.SM BEL.
The \e character is copied without
interpretation, to allow printing of embedded C code.
The macro 
.B .SO
may be used to include
.I troff
text that uses the standard
escape character.
.PP
The strings
.BI DT , 
.BI L ,
and
.B R
contain today's date, the left-hand, and the right-hand side
of the page header, respectively.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B COSPANOPT=-TlImyincludedir cospan myfile.sr
equivalent to
.BR "cospan -T -l -Imyincludedir myfile.sr" .
.TP
.B psr -.ll6.5i -.lt6.5i myfile.sr
equivalent to
.BR "psr -w6.5i myfile.sr
.SH "FILES"
.TF /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.psr
.TP
.F *.R
recovery data
.PD0
.TP
.F *.T
error track
.TP
.F *.L
list output (
.B -L 
option)
.TP
.F *.M
merging data
.TP
.F /tmp/srtm??????
temporary file
.TP
.F /usr/lib/sr
S/R compiler
.TP
.F /usr/lib/sr_D
S/R verbose compiler
.TP
.F /usr/include/crank.h
header file
.TP
.F /usr/include/crunch.h
implementation header file
.TP
.F /usr/libsr.a
analysis object library
.TP
.F /usr/lib/pretty
.I troff
preprocessor
.TP
.F /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.psr
.I troff
macros
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Z. Har'El and R. P. Kurshan,
.I
COSPAN User's Guide,
11211-871009-21TM, AT&T Bell Laboratories.
.IR spin (1),
.IR d202 (1)
