.TH CRAY 1 
.CT 1 comm_mach
.SH NAME
cray \- run job remotely on cray-xmp
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cray
[
.I options
]
[
.I jcl
[
[
.B +
]
.I file
]
...
]
.PP
.B c1sts
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cray 
submits the named files to the MHCC Cray.
A plus sign stands for a Cray end-of-file,
which separates jcl, source code, and data files.
A file
.I jcl
that doesn't exist in the current directory
is searched for in the directory specified
by the shell environment variable CRAYJCL.
.TP 1i
.BI -o ofile
Send the job output to
.I ofile.
.TP 1i
.BI -p pages
If the jcl file doesn't begin with a job line,
.I cray
supplies one.
In that case,
the option
.BI -p n
specifies the maximum number of pages 
(actually, 45-line blocks)
that can be output;
the default is 100.
.TP 1i
.BI -s n
Run the job at service grade
.I n.
(The default is
.LR -s2 ;
fastest is
.LR -s1 ;
long runs should be at
.Lr -s4 .)
.TP 1i
.BI -t seconds
If the jcl file doesn't begin with a job line,
specifies the maximum running time;
the default is 15.
.PP
.I C1sts
gives a status report on the cray.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run a Fortran program and subroutine, reading from param
on unit 5 and writing on unit 6,
.TP
.L
cray -o output ft + main.f sub.f + param
Run a Fortran program and subroutine, reading from param
on unit 5 and writing on unit 6,
.SH BUGS
Because of a problem with the standard input, the
.B -o
option is required for remote execution via Datakit.
.SH "THE FIRST TIME"
An incredible amount of busywork is required the first
time you use this command.
Get an account on mhuxa by filing an application
at the computer center accounting office,
and if possible get password aging turned off.
Set up your
.F .profile
on your home machine
and in the comp center so that remote execution in either
direction gets a silent login.
(Otherwise, you may get a `Bad magic number'
message when trying to execute a push.)
(Try copying the mhuxa file
.FR /a2/c1127/ehg/.profile .)
Set up mail forwarding from mhuxa to your
home machine.
(See 
.FR /usr/mail/ehg .)
Now, from your home machine, execute
.IP
.L dkcc mhcc/mhuxa who
.LP
to be sure everything is set up properly.
The first time you try this, you will be asked to
login;  this legalizes remote execution from your
home machine onto the comp center machine.
For the reverse direction,
your user id should be added to
.F /etc/procuid.local
on your home machine.
Export
.L CRAYJCL=/n/swift/usr/lsrc/cmd/cray/Jcl
from your
.F .profile
on your home machine.
By editing a copy of
.F /usr/bin/crmail
in your bin,
you can arrange for special action to be taken when
your output arrives; the default is mail notification.
Now you should be ready to run; try
.IP
.L cray -s1 -o tmp audit
.LP
If you don't get some job output back from the cray within a few minutes,
something is wrong.
