.TH D202 1 
.CT 1 writing_output comm_dev
.SH NAME
d202, tc \- typesetter filters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B d202
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B e202
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B tc
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I D202
and its companions print files
created by
.IR troff (1)
on various devices:
.TP
.I d202
Mergenthaler Linotron 202
.PD0
.TP
.I e202
same,
with half-tone and extra graphics capability
.PD0
.TP
.I tc
Tektronix 4014 display
.PD
.PP
If no
.I file
is mentioned, the standard input is printed.
The following options are understood.
.TP
.B -b
Report whether the typesetter is busy; do not print.
.TP
.BI -o list
Print pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated
.IR list .
The list contains comma-separated numbers
.I N
and ranges
.IB N1 - N2.
A missing 
.I N1
means the lowest-numbered page, a missing
.I N2
means the highest.
.TP
.BI -s n
Stop after every 
.I n
pages of output.
(Default 1 on 4014).
Proceed when the `RUN' button is pushed on the typesetter
.RI ( d202 )
or newline on the terminal
.RI ( tc ).
.TP
.B -t
Direct output to the standard output instead of the typesetter.
Don't wait between pages in 
.I tc.
.TP
.B -w
Wait for typesetter to become free, then print.
.TP
.BI -f " dir"
Take font information from
directory
.I dir
instead of the default.
.TP
.BI -a "r"
Set the aspect ratio to
.I r
(default
.IR r =1.5).
.I Tc
only.
.PP
While waiting between pages
.I tc
accepts
.BI ! command
to insert a shell command;
.BI + n
to skip forward
.I n
pages;
.BI - n
to skip backwards 
.I n 
pages;
.BI a r
to set the aspect ratio;
and
.B ?
to print the list of available actions.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/font/dev202/*
.TP
.F /usr/lib/font/dev202/*
202 description files
.PD0
.PD0
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR lp (1),
.IR troff (1), 
.IR proof (9.1), 
.IR apsend (1),
.IR font (5)
.SH BUGS
.I E202,
largely a superset of
.I d202,
should be combined with
.I d202.
