.EV
.TH esterel 1 local INRIA-CMA Esterel
.SH NAME
esterel \- Esterel compiler
.SH SYNTAX
.B esterel
[options] [file] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I esterel 
command invokes the various utilities constituting the Esterel language
development tools:
.IP "\fIstrlic\fP"
The Esterel front-end: receives files containing Esterel source
(\fB.strl\fP suffix) producing intermediate code (\fB.ic);
.IP "\fIiclc\fP"
The Esterel binder, performing the expansion of the \fBcopymodule\fP
statements; it receives several \fB.ic\fP (or \fB.lc\fP)
files and builds an unique linked code file (\fB.lc\fP);
.IP "\fIlcoc\fP"
The Esterel compiler, which produces from an unique \fB.lc\fP file,
Esterel automata in portable format (\fB.oc\fP);
.IP "\fIocl\fP"
A generic name for Esterel code generators,
translating portable automata (\fB.oc\fP) into a program written in one of
the supported target languages (see the \fB-L\fP option below).
.PP
If no files are given to the \fIesterel\fP command, the standard input
is used. Any suffix in the list \fB.strl\fP, \fB.ic\fP, \fB.lc\fP,
or \fB.oc\fP is recognized in the files names: the \fIesterel\fP command
will arrange for only the appropriate utilities to be called.
.SH OPTIONS
The following option is for the \fIesterel\fP command itself:
.IP "\fB-n\fP"
Tell what is to be done, but don't do it.
.PP
The option
.IP "\fB-version\fP"
display the version number of the \fIesterel\fP command, as well as the
ones of the various utilities including all known code generators.
.PP
The following options are passed to all four utilities:
.IP "\fB-v\fP"
Verbose mode: the \fIesterel\fP command and the various utilities
tell what they are doing;
.IP "\fB-w\fP"
Suppresse all warning messages; 
.IP "\fB-W\fP"
Display all warning messages (the default is to display only "selected"
warnings); 
.IP "\fB-stat\fP"
Display various time statistics;
.IP "\fB-memstat\fP"
Display statistics on dynamically allocated memory.
.PP
The three following options enable to stop the compilation process at
some intermediate stage:
.IP "\fB-ic\fP"
Just use \fIstrlic\fP to convert \fB.strl\fP files into \fB.ic\fP files
(with the same base name), ignoring all other files;
.IP "\fB-lc\fP"
Stop after running the binder (\fIiclc\fP);
.IP "\fB-oc\fP"
Stop after running the compiler (\fIlcoc\fP).
.PP
For the \fB-lc\fP and \fB-oc\fP options, one can specify the output
file name(s) with the \fB-B\fP and \fB-D\fP options.
.IP "\fB-B \fP\fIname\fP"
\fIname\fP denotes the output files default base name.
The appropriate suffix is added automatically (and possibly a working
directory name --see the following option).
If this option is omitted and if the \fIesterel\fP command
is invoked with only one file name, \fIname\fP defaults to the 
base name of this unique file with the appropriate suffix; 
otherwise it defaults to the base name \fBesterel\fP, still followed
by the appropriate suffix.
.IP "\fB-D \fP\fIdirectory\fP"
Specify a directory where the files produced by the command will be
placed. The default is the current directory.

The \fB-B\fP and \fB-D\fP options and the corresponding
default rules apply to the files produced by
the \fB-K\fP (except \fB-Kic\fP) and \fB-L\fP options below.
.PP
The \fIesterel\fP command removes all the intermediate files it has created,
unless one of the following options is given:
.IP "\fB-Kic\fP
Keep all the \fB.ic\fP files (their names being the original ones, with
the suffix \fB.strl\fP replaced by \fB.ic\fP);
.IP "\fB-Klc\fP"
Keep the (unique) \fB.lc\fP file; 
.IP "\fB-Koc\fP"
Keep the (unique) \fB.oc\fP file;
.IP "\fB-K"
Keep all the intermediate files.
.PP
The binder \fIiclc\fP recognizes some specific options:
.IP "\fB-Rs\fP"
Trace signal captures and renaming;
.IP "\fB-Rc\fP"
Trace constant captures and renaming;
.IP "\fB-R\fP"
Trace both signal and constant captures and renaming.
.PP
The compiler \fIlcoc\fP recognizes also some specific options:
.IP "\fB-size\fP"
Display the final size (states and bytes) of the generated automata; 
.IP "\fB-show\fP"
Display dynamically the number of states generated so far.  
.PP
The code generators (\fIocl\fP) recognize an unique option:
.IP "\fB-L\fP[\fIlanguage\fP][:\fIspecific_options\fP]"
.br
Set the target language: at this time only \fBc\fP, \fBlelisp\fP, 
\fBtex\fP, \fBplm\fP, \fBauto\fP,
and \fBdebug\fP are known; it is likely that other languages be added.
The code generators have a name of the form \fBoc\fP\fIlanguage\fP.
If the \fB-L\fP option or the language are omitted, the default is \fBc\fP.
The string \fIspecific_options\fP allows to transmit language dependent
options to a given code generator (see \fBocl(1)\fP).
.IP
There can be as many \fB-L\fP options as needed.
.PP
Finally, there is a particular option to do as much as specified (by the
stop options) but producing nothing.
.IP "\fB-s\fP"
Perform all the compilation process, as specified by the other options,
but produce nothing.
.SH EXAMPLES
The simple command
.sp
.RS
.B esterel foo.strl
.RE
.sp
performs a full Esterel compilation, leaving the produced automaton,
in C language form, in the file \fBfoo.c\fP.
.PP
To produce debug format while keeping the generated automaton in portable
format, try
.sp
.RS
.B esterel -Koc -Ldebug foo.strl
.RE
.sp
.PP
A little more complex, the following command
.sp
.RS
.B esterel -Kic -Koc -Bautom -Llisp 
.B f1.strl f2.ic f3.lc
.RE
.sp
will pass \fBf1.strl\fP through \fIstrlic\fP and keep the \fBf1.ic\fP file;
then it will pass \fBf1.ic\fP, \fBf2.ic\fP, and \fBf3.lc\fP 
through \fIiclc\fP and \fIlcoc\fP, producing the file \fBautom.oc\fP
(the intermediate files are discarded); finally,
this last file will be converted into the LeLisp file \fBautom.ll\fP
by \fIoclelisp\fP.
.PP
The command
.sp
.RS
.B esterel -K -Bfoo -D/a/b f1.strl f2.strl f3.ic f4.oc 
.RE
.sp
produces the following files: \fB/a/b/f1.ic\fP, \fB/a/b/f2.ic\fP,
\fB/a/b/foo.lc\fP, \fB/a/b/foo.oc\fP, and \fB/a/b/foo.c\fP.
.PP
To illustrate the \fB-s\fP option, note that
.sp
.RS
.B esterel -s foo.strl
.RE
.sp
performs a full compilation upto C code generation, but the C file is not
produced; similarly, 
.sp
.RS
.B esterel -ic -s foo.strl
.RE
.sp
will only execute the front-end \fIstrlic\fP without producing any \fB.ic\fP
file.
.PP
Finally, 
.sp
.RS
.B esterel -Lc -Lauto:"-signal EV1,EV2" foo.strl
.RE
.sp
performs a full compilation of the Esterel source file \fBfoo.strl\fP
to auto format (\fBfoo.auto\fP), passing the arguments 
\fB-signal EV1,EV2\fP untouched to the corresponding code generator
(here \fIocauto\fP).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The command returns with exit code 0 if (and only if)
no error was detected by the various utilities.
.PP
Various error or warning messages indicate 
incompatible or redundant options, or error
conditions related to file handling.
.SH BUGS
The command checks whether it generates a file which is already
present in its argument list, and if so, stops with an error, to
avoid clobbering the file.
.PP
The corresponding test is based on the name of files as given
by the user and is rather rustic.
For instance, the following erroneous condition (or any similar one)
is not detected
.sp
.RS
.B esterel -K -Bfoo  -D.. foo.strl .././foo.lc
.RE
.sp
and will certainly result in loosing the original content of ../foo.lc
(use the \fB-n\fP  option to see what will occur).
.SH FILES
.PP
In the following, $lib designates the default library directory for
Esterel utilities (usually /usr/local/lib/esterel). This default 
path can be modified by the installer of the Esterel system, or by any
user setting the environment variable ESTERELLIB.
.sp
.ta \w'mmmmmm'u +\w'$lib/strlic   'u
.br
.ti0
	$lib/strlic	Esterel front-end
.ti0
	$lib/iclc	Esterel binder
.ti0
	$lib/lcoc	Esterel compiler (automaton generator)
.ti0
	$lib/oc*	Esterel code generators
.ti0

	*.strl		Esterel source files
.ti0
	*.ic		Intermediate code files
.ti0
	*.lc		Linked intermediate code file
.ti0
	*.oc		Portable automata file
.ti0
	esterel.*	Default names for keeping intermediate files
.SH SEE ALSO
strlic(l), iclc(l), lcoc(l), ocl(l)
.br
\fIEsterel V3 Reference Manual\fP
.br
\fIEsterel V3 System Manuals\fP
.SH IDENTIFICATION
Author: Jean-Paul Rigault, Ecole des Mines de Paris, CMA
.br
$Revision: 1.1 $ 
.br
$Date: 88/04/07 13:39:34 $
