.  \"ident	"%W%"
.  \"Copyright (c) 1984 AT&T
.  \"All Rights Reserved
.  \"THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T
.  \"The copyright notice above does not evidence any
.  \"actual or intended publication of such source code.
.TH FSTREAM 3I+ "C++ Stream Library" " "
.SH NAME
fstream \- iostream and streambuf specialized to files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
.ta1i 2i
#include <fstream.h>

typedef long streamoff, streampos;
class ios {
public:
	enum	seek_dir { beg, cur, end };
	enum open_mode { in, out, ate, app } ;
	// \fIand lots of other stuff ... \fP
	} ;

class ofstream : ostream {
		ofstream() ;
		ofstream(char* name, open_mode mode, int prot=0664) ;
		ofstream(int fd)	;
		ofstream(int fd, char* p, int l) ;

	void	attach(int fd);
	void	close();
	void	open(char* name, open_mode, int=0664) ;
	filebuf*	rdbuf();
};

class ifstream : istream {  \fI same as ofstream\fP };
class fstream : iostream { \fI same as ofstream\fP };
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f(CWifstream\fRs, \f(CWofstream\fR and \f(CWfstream\fR
specialize \f(CWistream\fR, \f(CWostream\fR and \f(CWiostream\fR
(respectively) to files.
That is, the associated streambuf will be a \f(CWfilebuf\fR.
.PP
Assume
.br
\(em \fBf\fR any of \f(CWifstream\fR, \f(CWofstream\fR or \f(CWfstream\fR.
.br
\(em \fBpfb\fR is a \f(CWfilebuf*\fR.
.br
\(em \fBpsb\fR is a \f(CWstreambuf*\fR.
.br
\(em \fBname\fR and \fBptr\fR are \f(CWchar*\fR.
.br
\(em \fBi\fR, \fBfd\fR, \fBlen\fR and \fBprot\fR are \f(CWint\fR.
.br
\(em \fBmode\fR is an \f(CWopen_mode\fR.
.PP
The constructors for \fIx\f(CWstream\fR, where \fIx\fR is either
\f(CWif\fR,
\f(CWof\fR or \f(CWf\fR, are:
.TP
\fIx\fBstream()\fR
Constructs an unopened \f(CWxstream\fR.
.TP
\fIx\fBstream()(name,mode,prot)\fR
Constructs an \f(CWxstream\fR and tries to opens it using
\fBname\fR, \fBmode\fR, and \fBprot\fR.
The status of the constructed \f(CWxstream\fR
will indicate failure in case the
\fBopen\fR fails.
.TP
\fIx\fBstream()\fR
Constructs an \f(CWxstream\fR connected to file descriptor \fBd\fR,
which must be previously opened.
.TP
\fIx\fBstream(d,ptr,len)\fR
Constructs an \f(CWxstream\fR connected to file descriptor \fBfd\fR
and in addition initializes
the associated \f(CWfilebuf\fR to use the \fBlen\fR bytes
at \fBptr\fR as the
reserve area.  If \fBptr\fR is null or \fBlen\fR is 0, the \f(CWfilebuf\fR
will be unbuffered.
.PP
Member functions:
.TP
\fBf.attach(d)\fR
Connects \fBf\fR to the file descriptor \fBd\fR.
A failure occurs when \fBf\fR is already connected to a file.
A failure sets \f(CWfailbit\fR in \fBf\fR's error state.
.TP
\fBf.close()\fR
Closes any associated \f(CWfilebuf\fR and thereby breaks the connection
of the \fBf\fR to a file.  
\\fBf\fR's error state is cleared except on failure.
A failure occurs when the call to \fBf.rdbuf()->close\fR fails.
.TP
\fBf.open(name,mode,prot)\fR
Opens file \fBname\fR and connects \fBf\fR to it.
If the file is created, it is created with protection mode \fBprot\fR.
\fBopen\fR normally returns 0, but it returns \f(CWEOF\fR on failure.
Failure
occurs if \fBf\fR is already open, or the call to \fBf.rdbuf()->open\fR
fails.  \f(CWfailbit\fR is set in \fBf\fR's error status on failure.
The members of \f(CWopen_mode\fR are bits that may be or'ed together.
The meaning of these bits in \fBmode\fR is 
.RS
.TP
\f(CWapp\fR
A seek to the end of file is performed.
Subsequent data written to the file is always added (appended)
at the end of file.
On some systems this is implemented in the kernel.
In
others it is implemented by seeking to the end of the file
before each write.  \f(CWapp\fR implies \f(CWoutput\fR.
.TP
\f(CWate\fR
A seek to the end of the file is performed during the \fBopen\fR.
\f(CWate\fR does not imply \f(CWoutput\fR.
.TP
\f(CWin\fR
Implied by construction and opens of \f(CWifstream\fRs.
For \f(CWfstream\fRs it indicates that input operations should be
allowed possible.  Is is legal to include \f(CWin\fR in the modes
of an \f(CWostream\fR in which case it implies that the original
file (if it exists) should not be truncated.
.TP
\f(CWout\fR
Implied by construction and opens of \f(CWofstream\fRs.
For \f(CWfstream\fR it says that output operations are to
be allowed.
.RE
.TP
\fBpfb=f.rdbuf()\fR
Returns a pointer to the associated \f(CWfilebuf\fR.
\fBfstream::rdbuf\fR has the same meaning as
\fBiostream::rdbuf\fR
but is typed differently.
.TP
\fBpsb=f.setbuf(p,len)\fR
Has the usual effect of a \fBsetbuf\fR, offering space
for a reserve area or requesting unbuffered I/O.
Normally the returned \fBpsb\fR is \fBf.rdbuf()\fR, but it is 0
on failure.
A failure occurs if \fBf\fR is open or the call to \fBf.rdbuf()->setbuf\fR
fails.
.SH SEE ALSO
filebuf(3C++)
istream(3C++)
ios(3C++)
ostream(3C++)
sbuf.pub(3C++)
