.TH ICAN 1 
.CT 1 writing_output comm_dev
.SH NAME
ican, ibcan, idcan, itcan \- interface to Imagen laser-printer spooler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ican
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B ibcan
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B idcan
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B itcan
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
These commands print 
.I files
(standard input by default) on Imagen laser printers.
The four commands
handle particular kinds of data files:
.TP
.I ican
ASCII text
.TP
.I ibcan
bitmap images created by 
.IR blitblt (9.1)
.TP
.I idcan
output from
.IR troff (1)
.TP
.I itcan
output for a Tektronix 4014 terminal, as produced by
.IR plot (1)
.PP
The destination printer is determined in the following ways,
listed in order of decreasing precedence.
.IP
option
.B -d
.I dest
.br
environment variable
.L ICANDEST
.br
printer named in file
.F /etc/icandest
.LP
Printers at the mother site are:
.RS
.TP
.B 1
1st floor, stair 8 (sid)
.PD0
.TP
.B 3
3rd floor, stair 8 (shannon)
.TP
.B 5
5th floor, 2C-5 (hunny)
.TP
.B j
5th floor, 2D-5 (jones)
.TP
.BI / name
printer attached to machine with Datakit destination 
.I name
.RE
.PD
.PP
Options:
.PP
.TP
.BI -c " n"
Number of copies to be printed.
.TP
.BI -d " dest"
Select the destination printer.
.TP
.BI -f " font"
Set the font (default
.LR CW.11 )
for
.IR can ;
see 
.IR font (7).
.TP
.B -L
(landscape) Rotate
.I ibcan 
pages 90 degrees.
.TP
.BI -l " n"
Set number of lines per page for
.I can
(default 66).
.TP
.BI -m " n"
Set 
.I ibcan
magnification to a power of 2,
where
.I n
= 0, 1, or 2
(default 1).
.TP
.BI -o " list"
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in
the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.
A range
.IB n - m
means pages
.I n
through
.IR m ;
a range
.BI - b
means from the beginning to page
.IR n ;
a range
.IB n -
means from page
.I n
to the end. 
.B -o
implies
.BR -r .
.TP
.B -r
print
pages in reverse order
(default for 
.IR ican " and " idcan ).
.TP
.BI -u " user"
set the name which appears on the banner page;
default is login name.
.TP
.BI -x " n"
set the horizontal
offset of the print image, measured in dots (default 60).
There are 300 dots to the inch.
.TP
.BI -y " n"
set the vertical
offset of the print image (default 0),
except in
.I itcan,
where this option specifies
.I n
extra tekpoints vertically.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/spool/lp
.TP
.F /etc/icandest
default destination
.PD0
.TP
.F /usr/lib/font/devi300
font directory
.TP
.F /usr/spool/lp
spool directory
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR pr (1), 
.IR blitblt (9.1), 
.IR plot (1), 
.IR font (7)
.SH BUGS
The `landscape' option is supported only by
.IR ibcan ;
.BR -o
is supported only by
.I ican
and
.I idcan.
.br
There ought to be a way to determine the service class from the input data.
