.TH ICLC 1 "1 July 1988"
.SH NAME
iclc \- Esterel binder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iclc
[ option ] ... [ file ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIiclc\fR is the Esterel v3 binder.
It produces an \fIlc\fR format output 
(or \fIic\fR if some \fBcopymodule\fP instruction
could not be expanded) from one or more \fIic\fR format inputs.
If there is no input file, the standard input is used.
\fIic\fP format input describes Esterel \fBmodules\fP to be processed,
and \fIlc\fP format output describes Esterel \fBmodules\fP with
no \fBcopymodule\fP instruction.
Typical use is: 
.br
.DS
iclc < game1.ic > game.lc
.DE
.br
or 
.br
.DS
iclc game1.ic game2.ic > game.lc
.DE
.LP
The following options are interpreted by \fIiclc\fP:
.IP \fB-v\fR 10
Verbose mode. Tells what's going on.
.IP \fB-version\fR 10
Prints the version number and exits.
.IP \fB-stat\fR 10
Prints times and memory sizes for the main phases.
.IP \fB-memstat\fR 10
Gives the memory allocator state at the end of processing.
.IP \fB-Rs\fR 10
Signal renaming trace mode.
.IP \fB-Rc\fR 10
Constant renaming trace mode.
.IP \fB-cascade\fR 10
"Cascade" mode. Creates a file FOO.casc
using the -o, -B and -D options to find the name
(esterel.casc as a last resort).
.IP "\fB\-B\fP \fIname\fP" 10
Basename for the auxiliary output file.
.IP "\fB-D\fP \fIname\fP" 10
The name of the directory where the auxiliary output file will go.
For instance,
.br
iclc -D /users/john/wd -B game -cascade game*.ic
.br
will write in the file "/users/john/wd/game.casc".
.IP "\fB\-d\fP[level]" 10
Debug mode. Barely for you.
.IP "\fB\-o\fP \fIname\fP" 10
Names the final output file \fIname\fP (deleting the existing text).
Obsolete.
.IP \fB-\fR 10
Specifies the standard input as input stream. Works only once. Obsolete.
.SH FILES
The caller of the command
must have read/write permission for the directories containing
the working files, and execute permission for the \fIiclc\fR file itself.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by \fIiclc\fR compiler are intended (as usual)
to be self-explanatory. 
They have one of the following forms:
.IP
"file",line n: iclc error (or warning) : message
.IP
*** iclc: message
.IP
>>>iclc s_trace (or c_trace) : message
.LP
The first two forms are described in the \fIError Messages Manual\fR.
The last one is
generated by the -Rs or -Rc option.
The possible messages with -Rc are:
.IP "root module FOO:"
the binder begins to treat the root module FOO.
.IP "submodule /FOO/BAR:"
the binder begins to treat the module BAR, "called"
by module FOO.
.LP
CONSTANT added as @33 <<:
.IP
CONSTANT is added to the list of final
constants with number 33. The "<<" is here
to help you find later the name of constant
number 33. Just look upward for 33 followed by "<<".
.LP
CONSTANT captured by @33 in module /FOO/BAR:
.IP
CONSTANT is implicitly captured by final constant
number 33 which was defined in module /FOO/BAR.
.LP
CONSTANT replaced by @33 in module /FOO/BAR:
.IP
CONSTANT is explicitly renamed to final
constant number 33 by a copymodule instruction defined in module /FOO/BAR.
.LP
Messages generated by -Rs are alike, except that no module name is given
(all signals must be defined in the parent module).

.SH IDENTIFICATION
.de VL
\\$2
..
Author: J-M. Tanzi,
CMA, Ecole des Mines de Paris, 
.sp 0
Sophia-Antipolis, 06600 Valbonne, FRANCE
.sp 0
Revision Number:
$Revision: 1.3 $
; Release Date:
$Date: 88/07/04 10:32:28 $
\&.
.SH SEE ALSO
Esterel v3 Programming Language Manual
.sp 0
Esterel v3 System Manuals.
.sp 0
strlic (1), lcoc(1), ocl (1).
.sp 0
.SH BUGS
.IP -
error messages should point to the Esterel source code
and not to an intermediate code input file.
.IP -
there is no error message if the same signal or constant
appears more than once in a renaming list. Only one renaming
is applied, however.
.IP -
the "cascade" mode in not fully implemented.
