.TH ICONT 1 alice
.SH NAME
icont, iconc \- Icon language translator and compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icont
[ option ... ] file ... [
.B \-x
arg ... ]
.PP
.B iconc
[ option ... ] file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Icont
translates Version 5 of the Icon programming language
to an intermediate form, and link edits intermediate files
to interpretable files.
.I Iconc
does the same, but finally compiles to machine code.
Unless the
.B \-o
option is specified, the name of the linked file is
formed by deleting the suffix of the first input file named on the
command line.
Option
.B \-x
invokes the interpreter and passes the
.I args
to the Icon program.
.PP
Files whose names end in `.icn' are assumed to be Icon source programs;
files whose names end in `.u1' or `.u2' are assumed to be intermediate
files from a previous translation
(only one should be named \(em the other is assumed).
Unnamed .u1 and .u2 files are deleted.
The argument
.B \-
signifies the use of standard input as a source file.
.PP
The following options are recognized by
.IR icont .
.TP
.B \-c
Suppress linking and loading; preserve intermediate files.
.TP
.B \-m
Preprocess each `.icn' source file
with the
.IR m4 (1)
macro processor before translation.
.TP
.BI \-o " output"
Name the interpretable file
.IR output .
.TP
.B \-s
Suppress informative messages.
.TP
.B \-t
Arrange for
.I trace
to have an initial value of \-1
instead of 0 when the program is executed.
.TP
.B \-u
Issue warning messages for undeclared identifiers.
.PP
To run either and interpreatable or an executable file,
simply execute it as a command.
The following environment variables \- all numeric \- affect execution:
.TP
.I TRACE
Initialize the value of
.I trace,
overriding the translation option
.BR \-t .
.TP
.I NBUFS
The number of i/o buffers to use for files, normally 3.
.I input
and
.I output
are buffered unless they are terminals.
.I errout
is never buffered.
.TP
.I STRSIZE
The initial size of the string space, in bytes,
normally 51200.
.TP
.I HEAPSIZE
The initial size of the heap, in bytes, normally 51200.
.TP
.I NSTACKS
The number of stacks initially available for co-expressions,
normally 4.
.TP
.I STKSIZE
The size of each co-expression stack, in words, normally, 2000.
.TP
.I PROFILE
Turn on execution profiling of the runtime system.
The value of this variable specifies the sampling resolution, in words.
If the value is zero, profiling is not done.
The profiling results are left in a file `mon.out' for
interpretation by 
.IR prof (1).
.SH FILES
.ta \w'v5v/int/bin/utran     'u
v5v/int/bin/utran	icon translator
.br
v5v/int/bin/ulink	icon linker
.br
v5v/cmp/bin/libi.a      icon runtime library
.br
v5v/int/bin/iconx	icon interpreter
.br
mon.out	results of profiling
.br
*.u1, *.u2	intermediate files
.SH SEE ALSO
.I "Reference Manual for the Icon Programming Language, Version"
.IR 5 ,
Technical Report TR 81\-4a,
Department of Computer Science,
The University of Arizona,
Tucson, Arizona,
December 1981.
.br
.I Co-Expressions in Icon,
Technical Report TR 82\-4,
Department of Computer Science,
The University of Arizona.
.br
iconc(1), m4(1), prof(1), exec(2), monitor(3)
.SH BUGS
If the
.B \-m
option is used,
line numbers reported in error messages or tracing messages
are from the file after, not before, preprocessing.
.br
Integer overflow on multiplication is not detected.
.br
An interpretable
file produced on one system will not work on another system unless
the Icon interpreter is in the same place on both systems.
.br
Because of the way that co-expressions are implemented,
there is a possibility that programs
in which they are used may malfunction mysteriously.
