.TH LCOC 1 "30 June 1988"
.SH NAME
lcoc \- Esterel compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lcoc
[ option ] ... [ file ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlcoc\fR is the Esterel v3 compiler.
It produce an \fIoc\fR format output from one or more \fIlc\fR format inputs
(or \fIic\fR if no Esterel \fBcopymodule\fP instruction is used).
If there is no input files, the standard input is used.
\fIic\fP format inputs describes Esterel \fBmodules\fP to be processed,
and \fIoc\fP format output describes the computed automata.
Typical use is: 
.br
.DS
lcoc < game1.ic > game1.oc
.DE
.br
or 
.br
.DS
lcoc game1.ic > game1.oc
.DE
.LP
The following options are interpreted by \fIlcoc\fP.
.IP \fB-version\fR 10
Gives the version name and terminates ignoring all others arguments.
.IP \fB-v\fR 10
Verbose option: gives names of the modules compiled.
.IP \fB-stat\fR 10
Prints statistic informations into the standard error stream: 
parsing and compiling times and size of the process.
.IP \fB-size\fR 10
Prints size informations into the standard error stream: 
how many states, actions and action calls are produced.
.IP \fB-memstat\fR 10
Memory state after compiling.
.IP \fB-W\fR 10
Give warnings about .ic unused actions and .ic dead code.
.IP \fB-show\fR 10
During the compiling process, gives two informations into
the standard error stream:
how many states are already created and how many states are already
analysed.
.SH FILES
The caller of the command
must have read/write permission for the directories containing
the working files, and execute permission for the \fIlcoc\fR file itself.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by \fIlcoc\fR compiler are intended 
to be self-explanatory.
.SH IDENTIFICATION
.de VL
\\$2
..
Author: F. Boussinot,
CMA, Ecole des Mines de Paris, 
.sp 0
Sophia-Antipolis, 06600 Valbonne, FRANCE
.sp 0
Revision Number:
$Revision: 1.3 $
; Release Date:
$Date: 88/06/30 12:08:10 $
\&.
.SH SEE ALSO
Esterel v3 Programming Language Manual
.sp 0
Esterel v3 System Manuals.
.sp 0
strlic (1), iclc(1), ocl (1).
.sp 0
.SH BUGS


