.TH LISP 1 "alice sola"
.SH NAME
lisp, liszt, lxref \- lisp interpreter and compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lisp
.PP
.B liszt 
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I source
]
.PP
.B lxref
[
.RB \- n
]
.I file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lisp
interprets Franz Lisp, which closely resembles MIT's Maclisp.
Interpreted functions may be mixed with code compiled by
.I liszt,
and both may be debugged using the
`Joseph Lister' trace package.
.LP
There are too many functions to list here; one should refer to the
manuals listed below.
.PP
.I Liszt
compiles the lisp 
.I source
file, whose name ends in 
.BR .l ,
into an object file, whose name ends in
.BR .o .
The following options are available.
.TP
.B \-w
suppress warning diagnostics
.TP
.B \-q
suppress compilation statistics
.TP
.BI \-o " object"
put object code in specified file
.TP
.B \-m
source is Maclisp
.TP
.B \-u
source is UCI Lisp
.TP
.B \-S
leave assembler input in file suffixed 
.BR .s ;
do not finish compilation
.TP
.B \-x
place cross-reference list in file suffixed
.B .x
to be used by
.I lxref.
.PP
.I Liszt
with no arguments is the same as
.I lisp.
The compiler may be invoked from the interpreter:
.IP
( liszt [options] foo)
.LP
compiles file `foo.l'.
.PP
.I Lxref
writes to the standard output a readable form of
the named cross-reference files.
Not more than
.I n
(default 50) references to any function will be printed.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/list/machacks.l  'u
/usr/lib/lisp/auxfns0.l	common functions
.br
/usr/lib/lisp/auxfns1.l	less common functions
.br
/usr/lib/lisp/trace.l	Joseph Lister trace package
.br
/usr/lib/lisp/toplevel.l	top level read-eval-print loop
.br
/usr/lib/lisp/machacks.l	Maclisp compatibility package
.br
/usr/lib/list/ucifnc.l	UCI Lisp compatibility package
.SH SEE ALSO
`F\s-2RANZ\s0\ L\s-2ISP\s0  Manual, Version 1'
by John K. Foderaro
.br
M\s-2ACLISP\s0 Manual
.SH "BUGS"
The error system is in a state of flux and not all error messages are
as informative as they could be.
