.TH MAPLE 1  "02 June 1987"  "University of Waterloo"
.ds ]W "Symbolic Comp. Group
.SH NAME
maple \- interactive symbolic algebraic program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maple
[
.B \-b
libname
] [
.B \-q
] [
.B \-s
]
\" If a constant width font is used, set cW to 1.
\" Other set cW to 0 and use .cs to set constant spacing for examples
.ie \w'M'>\w'.' .nr cW 0
.el             .nr cW 1
\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Initiate a session with the
.I maple
symbolic algebraic program.
Expressions are read from standard input and the results are produced
in the standard output file as soon as each input expression has been
read.
Maple has the ability to algebraically manipulate unbounded integers,
exact rational numbers, real numbers with arbitrary precision, symbolic
formulae, polynomials, sets, lists, and equations.
It can solve systems of equations, differentiate formulae, and integrate
formulae.
In the following example from a Maple session, Maple's output
is shown to the right of the input expressions.
.sp
.ps 9
.vs 10
.nf
.if !\n(cW .cs R 18
.in +2
p:=x^2\-x\-2;
                                      2
                                p := x  \- x \- 2

q:=(x+1)^2;
                                             2
                                 q := (x + 1)

s:=p/q;
                                      2
                                     x  \- x \- 2
                               s := \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
                                             2
                                      (x + 1)

diff(s,x); # differentiate with respect to x

                                           2
                            2 x \- 1       x  \- x \- 2
                          \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\- \- 2 \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
                                  2               3
                           (x + 1)         (x + 1)

normal(s);
                                     x \- 2
                                    \-\-\-\-\-\-\-
                                     x + 1

Digits := 47;
                                  Digits := 47

x := 3^50;
                         x := 717897987691852588770249

s;
                            717897987691852588770247
                           \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
                            717897987691852588770250

evalf(s);
                .99999999999999999999999582113329270438496099068

quit;

.in -2
.if !\n(cW .cs R
.fi
.ps 10
.vs 12

If there is a system-wide maple initialization file with the name
.I init
under the src subdirectory of the Maple library, then this file
is read before the session starts.
In addition, if there is a maple initialization file named
.I .mapleinit
in the user's home directory, this file is read next.
If the \fI\-s\fR (suppress initialization)
option is specified, Maple will forego reading
any initialization file when initiating a session.


If the
.I \-b
(library) option is used,
then
.I pathname
should be the pathname of a directory which contains the Maple library.
This is used to initialize the value of the Maple  variable `libname'.
By default, `libname' is initialized with the pathname /u/maple/lib.
Some sites may install a maple shell script which uses the \fI\-b\fR
option to redefine the library pathname to be whatever is appropriate
for those sites, e.g.,
.nf
        maple \-b /usr/public/waterloo/maple/lib  $*
.fi

The \fI\-q\fR (quiet) option will suppress the printing of Maple's
startup logo, various informational messages (words used messages
and garbage collection messages), and the signoff message.
Maple is better suited for use as a filter when these messages are
suppressed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I "Maple: A Sample Interactive Session"
issued by the Symbolic Computation Group as
Research Report CS-85-01 available from the Department of Computer
Science, University of Waterloo,
.br
.I "Maple User's Guide"
by B.W. Char et al, Watcom Publications Limited, Waterloo, Ontario (1985).
.br
.IR mint (1)
.SH FILES
\&.mapleinit
.br
/usr/maple/lib \- Maple library (Pathname subject to change at
each installation.)
.SH AUTHOR
Symbolic Computation Group, University of Waterloo
.SH "FOR HELP"
At Waterloo, there is the newsgroup uw.maple which contains broadcasts
and discussions which would be of interest to general Maple users.
You should subscribe to this newsgroup if you intend to use Maple in
more than just a casual manner.
Users are encouraged to post their questions regarding Maple to this
newsgroup if they feel that their enquiries are of a general nature.
Replies will be posted to the newsgroup for all to see.
If you have a question that you think is of a very specific nature and
not of interest to others, you may send a mail message to
maple_help@watmum.
