.TH MILLE 6
.SH NAME
mille \- card game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/mille
[
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mille
plays a two-handed game
reminiscent of
the Parker Brother's game of Mille Bournes.
If a file name is given on the command line,
the game saved in that file is started.
.PP
When a game is started up,
the bottom of the score window will contain a list of commands.
They are:
.TP
.B P
Pick a card from the deck.
This card is placed in the 
.L P
slot in your hand.
.PD0
.TP
.B D
Discard a card from your hand.
To indicate which card,
type the number of the card in the hand
(or 
.L P
for the just-picked card)
followed by a newline or space.
.TP
.B U
Use a card.
The card is again indicated by its number.
.TP
.B O
Sort the cards in your hand.
This command toggles on and off.
.TP
.B Q
Quit the game.
.TP
.B S
Save the game in a file.
You will be asked for a file name.
A newline without a name terminates the command, but not the game.
.TP
.B R
Redraw the screen from scratch.
.TP
.B W
Toggle window type.
This switches the score window between the startup window
(with all the command names)
and the end-of-game window.
The end-of-game window
saves time by eliminating the switch at the end of the game
to show the final score.
.SS Cards
The number of such cards appears after the card name:
.PP
.nf
.ne 10
.ta \w'Speed Limit (3)'u+3n \w'Speed Limit (3)'u+\w'End of Limit (6)'u+6n
Hazard	Repair	Safety
.sp
Out of Gas (2)	Gasoline (6)	Extra Tank (1)
Flat Tire (2)	Spare Tire (6)	Puncture Proof (1)
Accident (2)	Repairs (6)	Driving Ace (1)
Stop (4)	Go (14)	Right of Way (1)
Speed Limit (3)	End of Limit (6)
.PP
.ce
25 \- (10), 50 \- (10), 75 \- (10), 100 \- (12), 200 \- (4)
.SS Rules
The object of the game is to get a total of 5000 points
in several hands.
Each hand is a race to put down exactly 700 miles
before your opponent does, making points on the way.
.PP
The game is played with a deck of 101 cards.
.I Distance
cards represent a number of miles traveled:
25, 50, 75, 100, and 200.
When one is played,
it adds that many miles to the player's trip so far this hand.
.I Hazard
cards prevent your opponent from putting down Distance cards.
They can only be played if your opponent has a
.I Go
card on top of the Battle pile.
The hazards are
`Out of Gas,' `Accident', `Flat Tire',
`Speed Limit and `Stop'.
.I Remedy
cards fix hazards:
`Gasoline', `Repairs', `Spare Tire', `End of Limit',
and `Go'.
.I Safety
cards prevent your opponent playing Hazard cards:
`Extra Tank', `Driving Ace', `Puncture Proof',
`Right of Way'.
.PP
The board is split into several areas.
From top to bottom, they are:
SAFETY AREA:
(unlabeled) where the safeties will be placed.
HAND:
The cards in your hand.
BATTLE:
This is the Battle pile.
where the Hazard and Remedy Cards are played,
excep Speed Limit and End of Limit.
Only the top card is displayed,
as it is the only effective one.
SPEED:
The Speed pile.
Speed Limit and End of Limit
cards are played here
to control the speed at which the player is allowed to put down miles.
MILEAGE :
Miles are placed.
The total of the numbers shown here is the distance traveled so far.
Not more than two 200-mile cards may be played in one turn.
.PP
The first pick alternates between the two players.
Each turn usually starts with a pick from the deck.
The player then plays a card,
or if this is not possible or desirable,
discards one.
Normally, a play or discard of a single card
constitutes a turn.
If the card played is a safety,
however,
the same player takes another turn immediately.
.PP
This repeats until one of the players reaches exactly 700 points
or the deck runs out.
If someone reaches 700,
they have the option of going for an `Extension',
which means that the play continues until 1000 miles.
.SS Hazards and Remedies
.IP Go
(Green Light)
must be the top card on your Battle pile
for you to play any mileage,
unless you have played Right of Way.
.IP Stop
is played on your opponent's
Go card.
.IP "Speed Limit"
is played on your opponent's Speed pile.
Until they play an End of Limit
they can only play 25 or 50 mile cards.
.IP "End of Limit"
is played on your Speed pile
to nullify a Speed Limit.
.IP "Out of Gas"
is played on your opponent's Go.
They must play  Gasoline
and then Go before they can play any more mileage.
.IP "Flat Tire"
and Accident are played similarly.
.PP
.IP "Safety Cards"
prevent your opponent
from playing the corresponding Hazards
for the rest of the hand.
It cancels the hazard,
and entitles the player to an extra turn.
.IP "Right of Way"
prevents both Stop and Speed Limit cards and acts
as a permanent Go.
.PP
A hand ends whenever one player gets exactly 700 miles or the deck runs out.
In that case, play continues until someone reaches 700,
or neither player can use any cards in their hand.
If the trip is completed after the deck runs out,
this is called
.IR "Delayed Action" .
.PP
Coup Fourre:
This is a French fencing term for a counter-thrust move as part of a parry
to an opponents attack.
In Mille Bournes,
it is used as follows:
If an opponent plays a Hazard card,
and you have the corresponding Safety in your hand,
you play it immediately,
eve before
you draw.
This immediately removes the Hazard card from your Battle pile,
and protects you from that card for the rest of the game.
This
gives you more points.
.PP
.BR Scoring :
Scores are totaled at the end of each hand,
whether or not anyone completed the trip.
The terms used in the Score window are:
.PP
.nf
Milestones Played: sum of miles
Each Safety: 100 points
All 4 Safeties: 300 points
Each Coup Foure:
300 points for each Coup Fourre accomplished.
Trip Completed: 400 points
Safe Trip: 300 points bonus for completing trip without 200 mile
Delayed Action:
300 points for finishing after the deck was exhausted.
Extension: 200 points bonus for a 1000 mile trip.
Shut-Out: 500 points for completing while opponent has 0 miles
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Arnold
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR curses (3)