.TH NETNEWS 7 "local, not alice"
.CT 1 comm_users inst_info
.SH NAME
netnews \(mi send or receive news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B netnews
[
.I option ...
]
.PP
.B netnews
.B -s
[
.I newsgroup ...
]
.PP
.B netnews
.B -i
.I title
[
.B -n
.I newsgroup ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Netnews
is an intercomputer news service.
Used now only locally, it has been replaced by
.IR postnews (7)
and
.IR readnews (7)
for outside connections.
When invoked without options it prints recent articles.
Normally the articles printed are restricted to newsgroups
you have signed up for and are
newer than your last use of
.I netnews.
After each article
a command is read from the standard input:
.TP \w'newline\ 'u
newline
Go on to next article.
.PD 0
.TP
.B p
Print article again.
.TP
.B -
Go back to previous article.
.TP
.B c
Cancel (restricted to contributor and super-user).
.TP
.BI "w " file
Append a copy of the article to the named
.I file.
.TP
.B r
Reply to author (via mail).
.TP
.B q
Exit.
.TP
.B x
Exit without update.
.PD
.PP
The options are:
.TP  \w'newline\ 'u
.B -p
Print with no questions asked.
.TP
.B -r
Print in reverse time order.
.TP
.B -l
Print titles only.
.TP
.BI -a " date"
Print articles received after
.IR date ;
no date means the beginning of time.
.TP
.BI -n " newsgroup ..."
Print articles from named newsgroups.
.TP
.BI -t " string ..."
Print only titles containing one of the 
.I strings.
.TP
.BI -s " newsgroup ..."
Subscribe to named newsgroups.
If no
.I newsgroups
are given,
list your current subscriptions.
Newsgroup
.L all
receives all articles;
.L net.all
receives all newsgroups that begin with
.LR net. ,
etc.
All users subscribe to the newsgroup
.LR general .
.TP
.B -i
Insert an article
(read from standard input)
with title
.I title
to the newsgroups specified by
.B -n
(default
.LR general ).
.PD
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/spool/news/history
.TP
.F $HOME/.newsrc
user's subscription list
.TP
.F /usr/spool/news/sys.nnn
news articles
.TP
.F /usr/spool/news/.bitfile
bit map of users with news
.TP
.F /usr/spool/news/.ngfile
list of legal newsgroups
.TP
.F /usr/spool/news/.uindex
index of netnews users
.TP
.F /usr/spool/news/.nindex
index of news articles
.TP
.F /usr/spool/news/.seq
sequence number of last article
.TP
.F /usr/spool/news/.history
list of all articles ever seen
.TP
.F /usr/spool/news/.sys
system subscription list
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR news (7), 
.IR readnews (7), 
.IR netnews (5)
