.TH OCC  1 "8 Juillet 88"
.SH NAME
occ \- Esterel and Lustre C code producer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B occ
[ option ] ... [ file ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIocc\fR code producer takes as input one or more \fIoc\fR  files
and produces standard executable C code.
If there is no input files, the standard input is used.
Typical use is: 
.DS
occ < game1.oc 
.DE
or
.DS
occ  game1.oc 
.DE
.LP
The following options are interpreted by \fIocc\fP.
.IP \fB-version\fR 10
Gives the version name and terminates ignoring all others arguments.
.IP \fB-array\fR 10
Arrays of automata are available using the \fB -array\fR option.
.IP \fB-nopack\fR 10
With this option, there is no packaging of input, output and sensor interface
procedures. This option is available for compatibility with old 
\fIocc\fR versions.
.IP \fB-s\fR 10
Silent mode. No output file is generated.
.IP \fB-v\fR 10
Verbose option: gives names of the input module.
.IP \fB-stat\fR 10
Prints statistic informations into the standard error stream: 
global time and size of the process.
.IP \fB-size\fR 10
Prints size informations into the standard error stream: 
how many actions and how many bytes are produced.
.IP \fB-memstat\fR 10
Memory state after compiling.
.IP "\fB\-B\fP \fIname\fP" 10
\fIname\fP denotes the output file default base name.
The suffix .c is added automatically (and possibly a working
directory name --see the following option).
If this option is omitted  the output code is printed in file:
occ_out.c.
For instance,
.DS
occ  -B game1 game1.oc 
.DE
.IP "\fB\-D\fP \fIdirectory\fP" 10
Specify  a directory where the output file will be placed.
The default is the current directory.
.SH FILES
The caller of the command
must have read/write permission for the directories containing
the working files, and execute permission for the occ file.
.SH IDENTIFICATION
.de VL
\\$2
..
Author: A Ressouche,
INRIA, 
.sp 0
Sophia-Antipolis, 06600 Valbonne, FRANCE
.sp 0
Revision Number:
$Revision: 1.5 $
\&.
.SH SEE ALSO
Esterel v3 Programming Language Manual
.sp 0
Esterel v3 System Manuals.
.sp 0
strlic (1), iclc(1), lcoc (1).
.sp 0
.SH BUGS


