.TH OCDEBUG  1 "8 Juillet 88"
.SH NAME
ocdebug \- Esterel and Lustre Debug code producer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ocdebug
[ option ] ... [ file ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIocdebug\fR code producer takes as input one or more \fIoc\fR  files
and produces a human-readable file.
If there is no input files, the standard input is used.
Typical use is: 
.DS
ocdebug < game1.oc 
.DE
or 
.DS
ocdebug game1.oc 
.DE
.LP
The following options are interpreted by \fIocdebug\fP.
.IP \fB-version\fR 10
Gives the version name and terminates ignoring all others arguments.
.IP \fB-names\fR 10
With this option, \fIocdebug\fR prints the signal name between brackets
for each present signal test and  between braces for each output action
performed in the automaton.
.IP \fB-halts\fR 10
With this option, \fIocdebug\fR prints the haltset of each state after the
keyword: \fBhaltset\fR
.IP \fB-emitted\fR 10
With this option, the list of output or local signals emitted in each 
transition is printed out after the keyword: \fBemitted\fR.
.IP \fB-s\fR 10
Silent mode. No output file is generated.
.IP \fB-v\fR 10
Verbose option: gives names of the input module.
.IP \fB-stat\fR 10
Prints statistic informations into the standard error stream: 
global time and size of the process.
.IP \fB-memstat\fR 10
Memory state after compiling.
.IP "\fB\-B\fP \fIname\fP" 10
\fIname\fP denotes the output file default base name.
The suffix .debug is added automatically (and possibly a working
directory name --see the following option).
If this option is omitted  the output code is printed in file:
ocdebug_out.debug.
For instance,
.DS
ocdebug  -B game1  game1.oc 
.DE
.IP "\fB\-D\fP \fIdirectory\fP" 10
Specify  a directory where the output file will be placed.
The default is the current directory.
.SH FILES
The caller of the command
must have read/write permission for the directories containing
the working files, and execute permission for the occ file.
.SH IDENTIFICATION
.de VL
\\$2
..
Author: A Ressouche,
INRIA, 
.sp 0
Sophia-Antipolis, 06600 Valbonne, FRANCE
.sp 0
Revision Number:
$Revision: 1.4 $
\&.
.SH SEE ALSO
Esterel v3 Programming Language Manual
.sp 0
Esterel v3 System Manuals.
.sp 0
strlic (1), iclc(1), lcoc (1).
.sp 0
.SH BUGS


