.TH OGRE 6
.SH NAME
ogre \- war game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/ogre
[
.I type
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Ogre is a game of tank warfare in the 21st century.
You command a force of infantry, armor, and howitzers pitted against a giant
cybernetic tank, the Ogre.
Your mission is to destroy the Ogre, or at least render it immobile, before it
reaches and destroys your command post.
.PP
A more complete reference on how to play can be found in the Ogre rule book for
the Metagaming MicroGame, now distributed by Steve Jackson's company.
Here's some very sketchy and incomplete documentation for Ogre players:
.PP
The game has the following phases:
.PP
1) Initialization.
The player's armor units, infantry, and command post are placed on the map.
Nothing can be placed on the leftmost 7 columns of hexes, or on craters (*'s),
or on any unit already placed.
Valid commands are:
.nf
           w   e
        a         d    (hex movement keys)
           z   x
            place a:
        H   howitzer
        T   heavy tank
        M   missile tank
        G   GEV
        I   Infantry unit (attack strength 3)
        C   Command Post
.fi
on the space currently pointed at by the cursor.
Note that these are capital letters.
.PP
Units are displayed as these characters, except infantry, which appear
as '1', '2', or '3' depending on their attack strength.
.PP
2) The Ogre (an O) now appears.
.PP
3) You are given the opportunity to move all your vehicles and infantry that
can move.
The cursor motion keys are used to move the unit indicated by the cursor.
Additionally, 's' or ' ' can be used to let a vehicle stay motionless.
No vehicle can move through a crater hex, or into a hex occupied by another
friendly unit on its last turn, although it can move through a friendly hex on
its way elsewhere.
Moving through the hex occupied by the Ogre is an attempt to ram the Ogre.
This reduces the Ogre's treads by some amount, and destroys the unit.
.PP
4) You now fire all your vehicles in range at designated targets on the Ogre.
The following commands are used:
.TP
.B m
fire at missiles
.TP
.B b
fire at main batteries
.TP
.B s
fire at secondary batteries
.TP
.B a
fire at anti-personnel guns
.TP
.B t
fire at treads
.PP
The odds of destroying the target are displayed, but no action is taken
until 'r' is used, or until you run out of attack points (except for attacks on
treads \- see below).
(In the odds display, '+' means a sure thing.)
.TP
.B p
Pass.
The unit is passed over, and given the opportunity to fire later.
.TP
.B r
resolve all allocations so far, and display the results.
This is implied by 't', as tread attacks cannot be grouped.
A resolve is done automatically when you run out of attacking units.
.PP
5) Second movement phase for GEVs.
Just like step 3, except that only GEVs can move.
.PP
6) The Ogre moves.
If it runs over any of your units, they are damaged or destroyed.
.PP
7) The Ogre fires at all units in range.
Destroyed units are removed from the map.
Disabled units are displayed in lower case, and may not move or fire until the
end of the NEXT Ogre attack.
.PP
Steps 3 through 7 are repeated until either
a) the Ogre has no movement points left, in which case you win, or
b) your command post is destroyed, in which case the Ogre wins.
.SH MISCELLANEOUS
.PP
The display "a/r Dd Mm" means the unit concerned attacks at a, at range r,
defends at d, and moves m hexes per turn.
.PP
The Ogre by default is a Mark III.
An argument of '5' on the command line makes it a Mark V, and gives you more
armor points.
.PP
The game can be interrupted at any point with a control-C.
There's now no way to restart.
.PP
The paper game is copyright (c) 1977 by Steve Jackson.
This computer implementation is copyright (c) 1984 by Michael Caplinger.
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Caplinger, Rice University (mike@rice.ARPA), from a Microgame of the
same name published by Metagaming of Austin, Texas, and written by Steve
Jackson.
This implementation is not authorized in any way by Mr. Jackson, and should not
be sold for profit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR termcap (5)
.SH BUGS
.PP
The Ogre sometimes gets confused and doesn't know where to go, so it oscillates
from one hex to another, and then back.
