.TH PASCAL 1
.CT 1 prog_other
.SH NAME
pascal \(mi language interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pascal
[
.B -cx
]
[
.BI - options
]
[
.B -i
.I name ...
]
[
.IB name .p
]
[
.I obj
[
.I argument ...
]
]
.PP
.B pmerge
.IB name .p
.I \&...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pascal
translates Pascal source programs
to interpretable form, executes them,
or both.
Under option
.B -c
the programs are translated
but not executed.
The translated code appears in file
.FR obj .
Under option
.B -x
.I pascal
interprets the previously translated code in file
.I obj
(default
.FR obj ).
.I Arguments
are made available through the built-ins
.L argc
and
.LR argv .
.PP
Options
.B -c
and
.B -x 
must come first.
.PP
Option
.B -i
causes the named procedures and include files to be listed.
.PP
Other options are combined in a separate string:
.TP
.B b
Buffer the runtime
file
.LR output .
.PD0
.TP
.B l
Make a program listing during translation.
.TP
.B n
List each included
file on a new page with a banner line.
.TP
.B p
Suppress the post-mortem control flow backtrace
if an error occurs;
override execution limit of 500,000 statements.
.TP
.B s
Accept standard Pascal only;
non-standard constructs cause warning diagnostics.
.TP
.B t
Suppress runtime tests of subrange variables and treat
assert statements as comments.
.TP
.B u
Card image mode;
only the first 72 characters of input lines are used.
.TP
.B w
Suppress warning diagnostics.
.TP
.B z
Cause the interpreter to gather profiling data for
later analysis by
.IR pxp (A).
.PD
.PP
.I Pmerge
combines the named source files into a single source file on the
standard output.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/pascal/*
.TP
.F *.p
source
.TP
.F *.i
include files
.TP
.F /usr/lib/pascal/*
.TP
.F obj
.TP
.F /tmp/pix*
obj for compile-and-go
.TP
.F pmon.out
profile data file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pc (1),
.IR pxp (A)
.br
W. N. Joy, Susan L. Graham, C. B. Haley,
`Berkeley Pascal User's Manual', in
.I
Unix Programmer's Manual, Seventh Edition, Virtual VAX-11 Version,
1980, Vol 2C
(Berkeley).
There
.I pascal
is called
.I pi, px,
and
.IR pix.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The first character of an
error message indicates its class:
.TP
.L E
Fatal error; no code will be generated.
.PD0
.TP
.L e
Non-fatal error.
.TP
.L w
Warning \- a potential problem.
.TP	
.L s
Warning \- nonstandard Pascal construct.
.SH BUGS
The keyword
.L packed
is recognized but has no effect.
.br
Diagnostics for an included file may appear in the listing
of the next one.
.br
A dummy
.I obj
must be given if both source and
.I arguments
are present.
