.tr ~
.TH POST 1
.SH NAME
post \(mi mail and directory service by name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B post
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I person ...
]
.PP
.B postext
[
.B -c
.I directory
]
.I extension ...
.PP
.B postorg
[
.B -c
.I directory
]
.I organization
.PP
.B postorg
[
.B -h
.I directory
]
.PP
.B postsx
[
.B -c
.I directory
]
.I person ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Post
mail and gives directory assistance based on
a corporate database.
Aside from addressing, it reads and sends mail in
the manner of
.IR mail (1).
.PP
Mail may be sent to a
.I person
by name:
.IP
.IB first . middle . lastname :\f2dir\f5:\f2org\f5:\f2loc\f5:paper
.LP
where partial fields are valid and every field except
.I lastname
may be omitted.
.I Dir
is a phone book, such as
.L attbl
or
.LR attc ;
.I loc
is a location code such as
.LR ih ,
and
.I org
is an organization number such as
.L 45
or
.LR 11271 ;
.L paper
sends paper mail.
This happens automatically for persons with no electronic mail address.
If a
.I person
argument is ambiguous,
.I post
gives a list of possibilities
to choose from.
.PP
Mail may also be sent to a
.I person
specifed as
.IB system ! userid
for electronic mail.
.PP
Options are:
.TP
.BI -c " directory"
Search for
.I persons
only in the given
.I directory.
.TP
.B -p
Send paper mail.
.TP
.B -w
Directory assistance.
Give the full directory entry for each
.I person.
The answer comes by mail if your machine is a remote post office.
.PP
The following options are not to be accompanied by
.I persons
or
.I addresses.
.TP
.BI -A " dafile"
Send mail to all names in
.I dafile
where
.I dafile
is output from a
.B -w
request.
.TP
.BR -B " [ \fImbox\fR ]"
Read mail from a specified
.I mbox
file or from the default
.LR $HOME/mbox .
.TP
.BR -D " [ \fIdirectory\fR ]"
Give modification times for the
.I directory
or for all
.I post
directories if no directory name is given.
.TP
.B -S
Start an interactive session to send
change-of-address notices to
an update site.
.TP
.B -v
Give the current version of
.I post
and tell whether the local post office is general, 
.LR g ,
(has a  directory) or remote, 
.LR r ,
(no directory).
.TP
.B -X
Start an interactive set-up session.
Should be used by new users.
.PP
To maintain mailing lists or to avoid typing long addresses,
you may keep an address book
in
.L $HOME/.mailrc .
Each line in this file begins
with the word
.L alias
followed  by
the alias and the
.I persons
or previous aliases that it stands for.
.PP
If environment variable
.BR POSTETC=ON ,
the
.IR passwd (5)
file is treated as a directory so that login names may be used as
.I persons.
In any case a login name on the local system
can be written
.BI ! userid.
.PP
.I Post
will ask for verification of recipient addresses
if environment variable
.BR CONFIRM=ON .
.PP
.I Post
searches directories sequentially.
The directory search path may be altered by setting the
environment variable
.B DIRPATH
similarly to
.B PATH
in
.IR sh (1).
.PP
.I Postext
is like
.LR "post -w" ,
but retrieves by phone number instead of by name:
.IP
.IB number : dir : loc :\f2org\fP
.LP
.I Postorg
retrieves by organization:
.IP
.IB org : dir : loc :\f2occlevel\fP
.LP
where
.I occlevel
is a (possibly partial) occupation level.
Option
.B -h
lists occupation levels.
.PP
.I Postsx
retrieves names phonetically similar to
.I persons.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B post s.j.griesmer
Send mail.
.TP
.B post -c attc -w smith
Who are all the smiths in attc?
.TP
.B post -w jackson:452:ih >dafile; post -A dafile
.PD
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/post/postlib/postversion
.TP
.F /usr/mail/*
mailboxes
.TP
.F dead.letter
unmailable text
.TP
.F $HOME/mail
default directory for secure saving of mail
.TP
.F $HOME/.mailrc
Mail options
.TP
.F $HOME/mbox
default mail repository
.TP
.F /usr/post/info/post/*db*
LLA database components
.TP
.F /usr/post/info/post/postsys
post administrative address
.TP
.F /usr/post/postlib/postoff
local and remote directories
.TP
.F /usr/post/postlib/postversion
version number
.TP
.F /usr/post/tmp/post/postlog
log of command executions
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR mail (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is 0 on total success,
1 on lookup failure, 2 on partial failure (e.g. ambiguous entries).
