.TH POSTBGI 8 local
.SH NAME
postbgi \- PostScript translator for BGI (Basic Graphical Instructions) files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B postbgi
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Postbgi
translates BGI (Basic Graphical Instructions)
.I files
into PostScript and writes the results on the
standard output.
If no
.I files
are specified, or if \- is one of the input
.I files,
the standard input is read.
The following
.I options
are understood:
.TP 1.0i
.BI \-c num
Print
.I num
copies of each page.
By default only one copy is printed.
.TP 1.0i
.BI \-f name
Print text using font
.I name.
Any PostScript font can be used,
although the best results will only be
obtained with constant width fonts.
The default font is Courier.
.TP 1.0i
.BI \-m num
Magnify each logical page by the factor
.I num.
Pages are scaled uniformly about the origin,
which by default is located at the center of
each page.
The default magnification is 1.0.
.TP 1.0i
.BI \-n num
Print
.I num
logical pages on each piece of paper,
where
.I num
can be any positive integer.
By default
.I num
is set to 1.
.TP 1.0i
.BI \-o list
Print pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated
.IR list .
The list contains single numbers
.I N
and ranges
.IB N1 \- N2.
A missing 
.I N1
means the lowest numbered page, a missing
.I N2
means the highest.
.TP 1.0i
.BI \-p mode
Print
.I files
in either
.B portrait
or
.B landscape
.I mode.
Only the first character of
.I mode
is significant.
The default
.I mode
is portrait.
.TP 1.0i
.BI \-w num
Set the line width used for graphics to
.I num
points, where a point is approximately 1/72
of an inch.
By default
.I num
is set to 0.0 points, which forces lines to be
one pixel wide.
.TP 1.0i
.BI \-x num
Translate the origin
.I num
inches along the positive x axis.
The default
coordinate system has the origin fixed at the
center of the page, with positive
x to the right and positive y up the page.
Positive
.I num
moves everything right.
The default offset is 0 inches.
.TP 1.0i
.BI \-y num
Translate the origin
.I num
inches along the positive y axis.
Positive
.I num
moves everything up the page.
The default offset is 0 inches.
.TP 1.0i
.BI \-A file
Append a simple accounting record to
.I file
after all the input
.I files
have been successfully translated.
By default no accounting data is produced.
.TP 1.0i
.BI \-L file
Use
.I file
as the PostScript prologue,
which by default is /usr/lib/postscript/postbgi.ps.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
0 exit status is returned if
.I files
were successfully processed.
.SH BUGS
The default line width is too small for 'write to white'
print engines, like the one used by the PS-2400.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/postscript/postbgi.ps
.SH SEE ALSO
dpost(1), postprint(1), posttek(1), postdmd(1)
