.TH PXP 1
.CT 1 prog_other
.SH NAME
pxp, pxref \- pascal printer, profiler, and cross-reference lister
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pxp
[
.B  -acdefjnstuw_
]
[
.B -23456789
]
[
.B -z
[
.I name ...
]
]
.IB name .p
.PP
.B pxref
[
.B -
]
.IB name .p
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pxp
prints the Pascal program
.IB name .p
in a standard `pretty' form.
Under option
.B -z
the listing is annotated with statement execution counts
from a previous
.IR pascal (1)
run.
.TP
.B  -a
Print the bodies of all procedures and functions in the profile;
even those which were never executed.
.TP
.B  -d
Include declaration parts in a profile.
.TP
.B  -e
Eliminate
.B include
directives when reformatting a file;
the
.B include
is replaced by the reformatted contents of the specified
file.
.TP
.B  -f
Fully parenthesize expressions.
.TP
.B  -j
Left justify all procedures and functions.
.TP
.B  -n
Eject a page
as each file is included;
in profiles, print a blank line at the top of the page.
.TP
.B  -s
Strip comments from the input text.
.TP
.B  -t
Print only a table of counts of
procedure and function calls.
.TP
.B  -u
Card image mode; only the first 72 characters of input lines
are used.
.TP
.B  -w
Suppress warning diagnostics.
.TP
.B  -z
Generate an execution profile.
The presence of any
.I names
causes the profile to be restricted to the named procedures,
functions, and include files.
.TP
.B  -\_
Underline keywords.
.TP
.BI - d
With
.I  d
a digit,
use
.I d
spaces as the indenting unit.
The default is 4.
.PP
.I Pxref
makes a line-numbered listing and cross-reference index for
.IB name .p .
The optional
.B -
argument suppresses the listing.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/how_pxp
.TP
.F *.p
input files
.TP
.F *.i
include files
.TP
.F pmon.out
profile data
.TP
.F /usr/lib/how_pxp
information on basic usage
.DT
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Berkeley Pascal User's Manual
.br
.IR pascal (1)
.SH BUGS
.I Pxref
trims identifiers to 10 characters and pads lines with blanks.
