.TH SAMUEL 9.1
.SH NAME
samuel \(mi text editor and C browser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B samuel
[
.I options
] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Samuel
is the editor
.IR sam (9.1)
with additional features, including a browser for C and C++ programs.
Most new features
are available from the button 3 menu or commands typed in the
command window.
The new menu entries are
.BR unopen ,
.BR smudge ,
.BR advisor ,
.BR browser ,
and
.BR interpreter .
.SS Unopen
.B Unopen
closes a window or file without removing the file name from the
menu.
.SS Smudge
.B Smudge
associates a descriptive tag with a window and places the
tag in the
.B smudge
submenu.
The tag may be hit like a file name to switch to the window.
.SS Advisor
.B Advisor
gives information about the selected library function name or
C keyword.
.SS Browser
.PP
When
.B browser
is first hit, the browser's data base is initialized
for the currently active
files.
A submenu then shows browsing functions.
.TF definition
.TP
.B reference
Find all references to the selected C symbol.
`Selected' means either highlighted
with button 1 or contained in the snarf buffer.
.TP
.B definition
Find the definition of the selected function name, #define
symbol, structure, union, class or typedef name.
.TP
.B called\ by
Find all functions called by the selected function name.
.TP
.B calls\ to
Find all calls to the selected function name.
.TP
.B find
Find all instances of the selected pattern.
.TP
.B egrep
Find all instances of the selected pattern, interpreted as in
.IR egrep (1).
.TP
.B all\ defs
Find definitions of all functions.
.TP
.B files
List files currently in browser data base.
.TP
.B rebuild
Rebuild the data base with the current list of files.
.TP
.B exit
Exit the browser.
.TP
.B \~\~samuel\~\~
Replace the contents of dot with the results of the last search.
.PD
.PP
Search results are placed in a 
.B browser
submenu labeled with the search string.
Hitting an item in a
search submenu closes the currently active window
(unless that would lose data) and opens
a window of the same size for the file containing the item, with the
window positioned at the item.
.SS Interpreter
.PP
When
.B interpreter
is first hit, the interpreter is initialized for interactive use, and
a submenu then shows interpreting functions.
.TF interrupt
.TP
.B \~\~cin\~\~
Toggle the use of the command window.  The first hit allows the user to send information to
the interpreter from the command window.  The second hit returns the command window to the
editor.  This interface will change in the near future.
.TP
.B doit
Send the selected text to the interpreter.
`Selected' means either highlighted
with button 1 or contained in the snarf buffer.
.TP
.B load
Load a file into the interpreter.  The user selects the window to load when the `bullseye'
prompt is presented.  The
.B load
submenu provides functions to
.B load
a single file,
.B loadall
files in the editor,
or load the
.B function
that contains dot (the edit point).
.TP
.B view
Sets the current view.  The
.B view
submenu provides functions to set the current
.BR view ,
a list of all
.BR views ,
describe
.B whatis
the selected identifier, and
.B where
the execution stopped in the interpreter.
.TP
.B return
Returns from a breakpoint.  The
.B return
submenu provides functions to
.B return
from a breakpoint, set a
breakpoint
.RL ( break ),
and clear a breakpoint
.RL ( unbreak ).
.TP
.B interrupt
Interrupt the interpreter.
.TP
.B eof
Sends an EOF to the interpreter.  Useful when the user program expects to see a
.BR <control-d> .
.TP
.B exit
Exit the interpreter.
.PD
.SS Other features
.I Help.
Press button 1 simultaneously with button 2 or 3 to see
a short description of the button 2 or 3 item.
In a search submenu, the information includes file name,
line number and, where appropriate, function name;
for a smudge submenu, the file name associated with the tag.
.PP
.I File menu.
When too many files appear in the button 3 menu, they are moved
to a submenu.
.PP
.I Font.
On the 630 MTG Terminal, the button 2 menu includes a
.L font
item with a submenu that lists fonts in the terminal's cache.
The font may be set independently in each window.
New windows and menus use the last font selected.
.SS Commands
.PD 0
.TP .5i
.BI z
Make
.I samuel
menu items visible; see
.B \-v
below.
Start the browser unless
it is already running.
.TP
.BI z-
Make
.I samuel
menu items invisible.
.TP
.BI zF " dbfile
If
.I dbfile
is specified, start, or restart, the browser with
.I dbfile
as a read-only data base file; see options
.B -f
and
.B -F
below.
Otherwise display the current
database file.
.TP
.BI zA " advisordb
If
.I advisordb
is specified, set the
.B ADVISOR
environment variable.
Otherwise display the value of
.BR ADVISOR .
.TP
.BI za " keyword
Search for
.I keyword
in the advisor database.
.TP
.BI zu " file-list
Unopen the named files.  If no files are named, the current file is unopened.  It is an
error to
.B zu
a modified file, but a subsequent
.B zu
will unopen such a file.
.TP
.B zc
Delete dot and save the deleted text in the snarf buffer.
.TP
.B zp
Replace the text in dot by the contents of the snarf buffer.
.TP
.B zs
Save the text in dot in the snarf buffer.
.I keyword
in the advisor database.
.PD
.SS Options
.PD 0
.TP .5i
.BI -f " file.db
Create the data base in the named file.
If the file
already exists and any files
have been modified since the last build, update the data base.
.TP
.BI -F " file.db
The data base already exists in the named
file.
The file is read-only; rebuilds are not allowed.
.TP
.BI -i " filenames
Use the named files in creating the data base.
.TP
.BI -I " includedir
Search directory
.I includedir
for included files.
This option may appear more than once.
.TP
.BI -s " sourcedir
Search directory
.I sourcedir
for referenced function definitions.
This option may appear more than once.
.TP
.BI -D name=def
.TP
.BI -D name
Define the
.I name
to
.I cin ,
as if by
.BR #define .
If no definition is given, the name is defined as 1.
.TP
.BI -U name
Remove any initial definition of
.IR name .
.TP
.BI -l x
This option is an abbreviation for the library name
.BI /lib/lib x .a ,
where
.I x
is a string.  If that does not exist,
.I cin
tries
.BI /usr/lib/lib x .a .
A library is searched when its name is encountered, so the placement of a
.B -l
is significant.
.TP
.BI -u name
Enters
.I name
as undefined into
.IR cin 's
symbol table.  This is useful for loading wholly from a library, since initially
the symbol table is empty and an unresolved reference is needed to force the loading
of the first routine.
.TP
.BI -V func:n
Declare function
.I func
to have a variable number of arguments, the first
.I n
of which are to be type checked.
.PD
.TP
.B -c
If the terminal is a 630 MTG, cache the terminal portion of
.IR samuel ;
later invocations will be executed from the cache without downloading.
.TP
.B -v
Make
.I samuel
behave like
.IR sam ;
use the
.L z
command to restore
.I samuel.
.PD
.SS Environment Variables
.TF SAMUEL
.TP 
.B INCLUDEDIRS
Colon-separated list of directories to search for
.B #include
files.
.TP
.B SOURCEDIRS
Colon-separated list of directories to search for additional source files.
.TP
.B SAMUEL
Directory containing samuel utilities.
Overrides the default locations listed below.
.TP
.B TMPDIR
Directory used to create temporary files,
.F/tmp
by default.
.TP
.B ADVISOR
Colon-separated list of advisor data base files.
These are searched in
specified order followed by the standard samuel data base file.
.TP
.B DMD
Directory for standard dmd software,
.F /usr/jerq/lib
by default.
.PD
.SH FILES
.TF $DMD/samuel/samuel.ca.dat
.TP
.F $HOME/sam.err
saved diagnostic output from Unix commands
.TP
.F $HOME/sam.save
bundled files on unexpected exit
.TP
.F $DMD/samuel/samuel.m
terminal support program for samuel
.TP
.F $DMD/samuel/samuel.cs
C browser support program for samuel
.TP
.F $DMD/samuel/samuel.ca
C advisor support program
.TP
.F $DMD/samuel/samuel.ca.dat
C advisor data base
.TP
.F $DMD/samuel/samuel.st
samuel statistics gathering program
.TP
.F $TMPDIR/cscope*.0
default data base file
.TP
.F $TMPDIR/cscope*.1
results of last search
.TP
.F $TMPDIR/cscope*.2
temporary
.SH SEE ALSO
sam(9.1)
.br
J. J. Puttress,
.I "The C Browser"
(11229-861017-19TMS).
.br
J. J. Puttress,
.I "The C Browser: Examples"
(11229-861014-18TMS).
.br
T. J. Kowalski, H. H. Goguen, J. J. Puttress,
.I "The C Interpreter: A Tutorial for Cin Version 0.18"
(11229-880606-07TMS).
.br
R. Pike,
.I "The Text Editor Sam"
(11271-870423-06TMS).
.br
R. Pike,
.I "A Tutorial for the SAM Command Language"
(11271-860924-07TMS).
.br
J. L. Steffen, Interactive Examination of a C Program with Cscope.
.IR "USENIX Winter Conference Proceedings Dallas 1985" ,
170-175.
.SH BUGS
.I Samuel
will not correctly browse C source with syntax errors.
