.TH SPITBOL 1
.SH NAME
spitbol \- Snobol language compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spitbol
[
.I options
]
.I ifile ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Spitbol
is an upward compatible
dialect of SNOBOL4.
.PP
All names used in a program are normally mapped to UPPER CASE during
compilation and execution. 
For strict compatibility with SNOBOL4, use the \-f
option or \-CASE control statement.
.PP
Each
.IR ifile
is read in order before the standard input.
Standard output comes only from assignments to OUTPUT and from
error messages.
.PP
Compiler options:
.TP "\w'-u string  'u"
.B \-f
don't fold lower case names to UPPER CASE
.TP
.B \-e
don't send error messages to the terminal 
.TP
.B \-l
generate source listing
.TP
.B \-c
generate compilation statistics
.TP
.B \-x
generate execution statistics
.TP
.B \-a
like
.B "\-lcx"
.TP
.B \-p
long listing format; generates form feeds
.TP
.B \-z
use standard listing format
.TP
.B \-h
write
.I spitbol
header to standard output
.TP
.B \-n
suppress execution
.TP
.BI \-m dd
max size (words) of created object
(default 8192)
.TP
.BI \-s dd
maximum size (words) of stack space
(default 2048)
.TP
.BI \-i dd
size (words) of increment by which dynamic area is increased
(default 4096)
.TP
.BI \-d dd
size (words) of maximum allocated dynamic area
(default 256K)
.TP
.BI \-u " string"
executing program may retrieve string with HOST(0)
.TP
.BI \-o " ofile"
write listing, statistics and dump to
.I ofile
and OUTPUT to standard output
.PP
Note:
.I dd
can be followed by a
.B k
to indicate units of 1024.
.PP
.PP
.I Spitbol
has two input-output modes,
.I line mode,
where records are delimited by new-line characters, and
.I "raw mode"
where a predetermined number of bytes
is transferred.
Modes are specified in INPUT or OUTPUT function calls.
The maximum length of an input record is set by the
.B \-l
or
.B \-r
argument.
The form of the INPUT/OUTPUT function call is
.IP
INPUT/OUTPUT(.name,channel,file_name args)
.PP
where
.I name
is the variable name to be input/output associated and
.I "channel"
is an integer or string that identifies the association
to be used in subsequent calls for EJECT, ENDFILE,
INPUT, OUTPUT, REWIND, and SET.
If the
.I channel
is omitted or the null string, the association is 
made to the system's standard input or output stream.
.I "file_name args"
specifies the source/destination of the
input/output and any IO processing arguments. The
.I file_name
can be either a path name to a file or a
command string. Command strings are distinguished from
file names by a leading "!". The character following the
"!" is the delimiter used to separate the command string
from any IO processing arguments. The ending delimiter
may be omitted if there are no IO processing arguments.
There must always be at least one space between the
.I file_name
and
.I args,
even if the
.I file_name
is null.
.PP
.PP
Input/output arguments are:
.TP
.B \-a
Append output to existing file. If file doesn't exist
then it is created.
If
.B \-a
is not specified then file
is created.
.TP
.BI \-b dd
Set internal buffer size to
.I dd
characters. This value
is the byte count used on all input/output transfers
except for the last write to an output file
(default 4096).
.TP
.B \-c
Like
.BI \-r 1
.TP
.BI \-f dd
Use
.I dd
as file desciptor for IO.
.I spitbol
assumes that
.I dd
has been opened by the shell. File names and
.BI \-f dd
arguments are mutually exclusive.
File descriptors 
0, 1, and 2
may
be accessed in this manner.
.TP
.BI \-l dd
Line mode: maximum input record length is
.I dd
characters (default 4096).
.TP
.BI \-r dd
Raw mode: input record length is
.I dd
characters.
.TP
.B \-w
On output, each record is directly written to the
file without any intermediate buffering (default for terminals).
On input, each input operation uses exactly one
.IR read (2),
and fails if 
.I read
returns 0.
.PP
More than one type of transfer may be associated with a channel.
This is accomplished by calling INPUT/OUTPUT after the initial
call with the name, channel, and file arguments. The
file name or
.B \-f
argument must not be specified on calls subsequent
to the first.
.PP
Standard functions:
.RI SET( channel,integer,integer )
The arguments are same as those to the
.IR lseek (2),
escept that
the first argument identifies a spitbol channel instead of
a file descriptor.
.TP 
EXIT(\fIcommand-string\fP)
causes the value of
.I command-string
to be handed to the Shell to be executed after
.I spitbol
terminates.
.TP 
EXIT(\fIn\fP)
If
.I n
is greater than 0, a load module will be written in
.I a.out
before termination.
Executing this load module will restore the state of the
.I spitbol
system to what it was when EXIT was called, except that
any files other than the standard input, output, and error
will have been closed.
To the SNOBOL4 program, it will appear as if
EXIT had returned a null string.
If
.I n
is exactly 1,
the generated load module will identify
the version of
.I spitbol
that created it in a message when it
begins execution.
If
.I n
is greater than 1,
it will resume quietly.
.TP
HOST()
returns the host string read from /usr/lib/spithost.
.TP
HOST(0)
returns the string specified with the
.B \-u
option
on the command line.
If
.B \-u
was not specified the
null string is returned.
.TP
HOST(1,"command string")
executes the command string
and continues.
.TP
HOST(2,\fIn\fP)
returns argument number
.I n
from the command line.
It fails if
.I n
is out of range or not an integer.
.TP
HOST(3)
returns the index of the first command line argument
that was not examined by
.IR spitbol .
.TP
HOST(4,"var")
returns the value of the environment variable
.IR var .
If the value is too long for an internal buffer
(presently 512 bytes) it is quietly truncated.
.TP
HOST(5,n)
sets (if n > 0) or resets (if n < 0) a trap for
signal number \|n\|
(see
.IR signal (2)).
It returns 0 if no trap was previously set for that signal,
1 if a trap has been previously set but the signal has not occurred since
the last call, or 2 if the signal has occurred.
.SH "MISCELLANY"
A file is not actually opened until the first attempt
to read, write, SET, or REWIND it.
.PP
Folding of names to UPPER CASE can be controlled during compilation
by the \-CASE control statement and during execution by the &CASE keyword.
A value of 0 prevents folding to UPPER CASE and a value of 1
forces folding to UPPER CASE.
.PP
Integers are represented by 32-bit quantities.
Real numbers are implemented in single precision.
.PP
Setting &STLIMIT = \-1 inhibits statement limit checking and provides
a way to execute arbitrarily many statements.
.PP
The name TERMINAL is available with default associations for input and
output to the terminal.
.PP
If the first line of the first input file begins with
.B #!
then that line is ignored.
This meshes with the way that
.IR exec (2)
treats files beginning with
.BR #! .
.PP
Setting &PROFILE = 1 causes
.I spitbol
to accumulate profile information during program execution
and print this information after the program terminates.
.SH "FILES"
/usr/lib/vaxspitv35.err  \- Error text.
.br
/usr/lib/spithost \- Host computer and operating system identifier.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I "Macro SPITBOL Program Reference Manual"
by R. B. K. Dewar, A. P. McCann, R. E. Goldberg, and Steven G. Duff
.br
.I "The SNOBOL4 Programming Language, Second Edition"
by R. E. Griswold, J. F. Poage and I. P. Polonsky
.br
.IR sno (1), 
.IR snocone (1)
