.EV
.TH STRLIC 1 "30 June 1988"
.SL 
.SH NAME
strlic \- Esterel parser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B strlic
[ option ] ... [ file ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIstrlic\fR is the Esterel v3 parser, type-checker and intermediate code
generator. It checks the Esterel input programs for syntax and type
errors. It produces an \fIic\fR format output. If no input file is specified,
standard input is used. Output is produced only for valid input files
i.e. files that did not generate any error. Warnings do not forbid code
generation.
Error messages and warnings are written to the standard error stream.
Typical use is: 
.br
.LP
.DS
strlic < game1.strl > game.ic
.DE
.br
or 
.br
.DS
strlic game1.strl game2.strl > game.ic
.DE
.LP
The following options are interpreted by \fIstrlic\fP:
.IP \fB-version\fR 10
Gives the version name and terminates ignoring all others arguments.
.IP \fB-memstat\fR 10
Memory state after compiling.
.IP \fB-stat\fR 10
Prints auxiliary informations onto the standard error stream: 
parsing, type-checking and coding times, size of the process.
.IP \fB-w\fR 10
With this option, no warnings are generated.
.IP \fB-W\fR 10
This options tells \fIstrlic\fP to generated all possible warnings. Messages
printed only if this option is specified are completely harmless
.SH FILES
The caller of the command
must have read/write permission for the directories containing
the working files, and execute permission for the \fIstrlic\fR file itself.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by \fIstrlic\fR compiler are intended 
to be self-explanatory.
.br
System errors are preceded by the message "$$Internal error".
.SH IDENTIFICATION
.de VL
\\$2
..
Author: R. Bernhard
.br
CMA, Ecole des Mines de Paris, 
.sp 5
Sophia-Antipolis, 06600 Valbonne, FRANCE
.br
Revision Number:
$Revision: 1.14 $
; Release Date:
$Date: 88/07/11 17:21:41 $
\&.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
esterel(1), iclc(1), lcoc(1), ocxx(1).
.br
Esterel v3 Programming Language Manual
.br
Esterel v3 System Manuals.
