.TH TRACK 1
.SH NAME
track \- selective remote file copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B track
[
.B -vntfd
]
.I file machine
.PP
.B track -r
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Track
uses Datakit to copy files from another machine to the local machine.
If the version of the named file differs from that existing on the
named machine, the remote file is copied.
If the named file is a
directory, the contents of the directory are considered recursively.
Files are copied only if they exist on both machines.
Options:
.TP
.B -v
Normally a report is given for each file copied.
Giving the option causes more verbose reports, for example about
files that exist locally but not remotely.
Giving the option twice generates a report about each file considered.
.TP
.B -n
Do no copying; just report what would have been copied.
.TP
.B -t
Copy only if a remote file is newer than the local file.
.TP
.B -f
Interpret the following file as a list of files and directories
to be handled.
.TP
.BR -d " prefix "
Normally
.I track
copies from remote files with the same names as the local files.
The
.B -d
option takes the next argument as a prefix for remote names;
in constructing the remote name, the argument string that specifies
the local file
or directory is replaced by the prefix.
directory.
.TP
.B -r
This option causes
.I track
to act as the remote partner;
it is invoked in this way on the other machine, and is not intended
for use by humans.
.PP
.I Track
has no special privileges.
Files must be readable remotely and writable locally by the invoker.
It attempts to set the time of modification of a copied file to that
of the remote original;
the attempt can succeed only if the invoker of the local file owns
it or is the super-user.
This feature matters only when random libraries (archives) are being
copied, because the loader uses this time to determine whether the symbol
table is up-to-date.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L track -d /bin /usr/local/bin ikeya
Copy files from the remote directory
.L /bin
to the local directory. 
.L /usr/local/bin
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR push (1), 
.IR cp (1), 
.IR newer (1)
