.TH TSET 1
.CT 1 comm_term
.SH NAME
tset \- set terminal modes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tset
[
.I options
]
[
.B -m
.RB test : type
...
]
[
.I type
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tset
conditionally
sets erase and kill characters, tabs, delays, etc.
for terminals.
It is typically used in startup profiles; see
.IR sh (1).
In default of a specified terminal
.I type
(listed in the file
.FR /etc/termcap )
the type is taken from the environment variable
.LR TERM .
Option
.B -m
determines the type based on source and baud rate:
.IP
.B -m
.RI [\fB> baud ]\fB: type
.LP
No sources are distinguished at present.
The test 
.L >
may be replaced by 
.LR < ,
.LR = ,
or 
.L @
(same as 
.LR = ).
The test may be preceded by 
.L !
for negation.
A
.I type
may be preceded by 
.L ?
to cause
.I tset
to query whether the guess is right.
Tests are performed left-to-right until one is satisfied.
A final default
.I type
prevails when all tests fail.
Thus
.IP
.L
tset -m  \'>1200:5620\'  \'?hp\'
.LP
assumes the terminal is a 5620 if the line speed exceeds 1200 baud.
Otherwise it assumes an hp terminal but asks for confirmation,
giving you a chance to name another type.
.PP
The
.B -s
option causes tset to place on the standard output shell commands
for setting the environment variables
.L TERM
and
.LR TERMCAP .
Use this feature thus:
.IP
.L
eval \`tset -s \fIoption ...\fR\`
.PP
On terminals that can backspace but not overstrike
and when the erase character is the default erase character
.RL ( #
on standard systems),
the erase character is changed to a Control-H
(backspace).
.PP
Other options are:
.TP
.BI -e " c"
set the erase character to
.I c,
or backspace if
.I c
is missing
.TP
.BI -k " c"
set the kill character similarly; use control-X if
.I c
is missing
.TP
.B -I
suppress outputting terminal initialization strings
.TP
.B -Q
suppress printing
`Erase set to' and `Kill set to' messages
.TP
.B -S
Outputs
.L TERM
and
.L TERMCAP
in the environment rather than in shell commands
.SH FILES
.TF /etc/termcap
.TP
.F /etc/ttytype
terminal id to type map database
.TP
.F /etc/termcap
terminal capability database
.SH SEE\ ALSO
.IR sh (1), 
.IR stty (1), 
.IR environ (5), 
.IR termcap (5)
