.TH TWID 9.6
.CT 1 games
.SH NAME
twid, pen \- doodle on the screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B twid
.PP
.B pen
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Twid
is a beginner's `oil paint' program; serious artists will use
.IR paint (9.1).
Button 3 gets a palette (menus of paints
are unappetizing), and
buttons 1 and 2 apply paint.
.PP
The palette has a list of names of subpalettes.
After making a selection, depress button 3 again to display
the subpalette.
The palette names are:
.TF texture
.TP
.B style
Choose drawing style:
.B ink
(Rembrandt),
.B point
(Seurat),
.B line
(Mondrian),
.B curve
(Matisse)
and
.B disk
(Disney).
.PD
.TP
.B texture
selects a texture (paint) to be applied with the brush.
The default set of textures is sufficient for Lichtenstein.
Use the
.B <new>
button to create new ones:
use button 1 (2) to select the area under the
cursor (its bitwise complement),
and type a name for
.I twid
to call it.
.TP
.B brush
selects the brush size and shape.
Predefined brushes are square, for effects ranging
from Dali to Van Gogh;
to be more modern use
.B <new>
(again, you must name the new brush).
.TP
.B buttons
By default, button 1 puts paint down and button 2
picks it up again.
This palette lets you change that behavior.
.TP
.B copy
provides commands for moving and rotating sections
of the picture.
.TP
.B unix
offers commands for reading and writing files, and exiting.
.PP
The current style, texture and brush are
indicated in their palettes by an asterisk 
.LR * .
.PP
.I Pen
writes on the screen with smooth strokes.
It can scribble on layers or on
the background, even while other programs are running.
It can be used to make drawings, annotations, highlights,
or graffiti.
.PP
To write, hold button 1 while moving the mouse.
Button 3 gets
a menu to stop drawing and return to normal fettered activity,
resume drawing,
clean up, or exit the program.
.SH BUGS
If the pen layer where the ink is kept is too small,
furious writing can cause the pen to run dry.
When this happens, release
button 1 and press it again.
