.TH WX 7
.SH NAME
wx - get weather information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wx
[
.B -cemnoOs
]
[
.B -a
.I state
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Wx
writes the local (greater New York and Philadelphia)
weather forecast.
.PP
The following options are available:
.TP 15
.B \-e
Print only the extended forecasts.
.TP 15
.B \-m
Print the marine weather and forecast,
which gives coastal and offshore information
(winds, tides, wave heights, visibilities, etc.)
for an area from Watch Hill, R.I. to Manasquan,
N.J.
.TP 15
.B \-c
Print a summary of temperatures and weather
for selected U.S. cities.
.TP 15
.B \-n
Print the national weather summary.
.TP 15
.B \-s
Print ski conditions
for New York and New England.
.TP 15
.B \-oO
Print the previous
.B (-o)
and oldest avalable
.B (-O)
national weather summaries.
.TP 15
\fB \-a\fI state \fR
(where
.I state
is a two-letter, lower case
state abbreviation)  Print (cat) an
area forecast (if available) for any state requested
in the continental U.S.; e.g.
.I
wx -a mi
will print the state forecast for Michigan.
The required 2-letter abbreviation for any
state may be found by typing,
.I
wx -a ?.
.PP
Except for
.I
wx -a,
all information is printed under the
.I
p
command.
For details of
.I p,
refer to the manual page.
.SH FILES
.TP 30
/usr/lbin/wx
.TP 30
/usr/pub/weather/*
weather and forecast files, updated daily
.SH BUGS
What comes out is
only as good as
what went in.  If the
information you are
requesting was not sent
over the weather line, you
will get no meaningful output.
If information over the line
came in with faulty separator
codes, you will get strange,
often cryptic, output.
