'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.chbinarsys %W%
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} ckbinarsys 1M "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} ckbinarsys 1M "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} ckbinarsys 1M "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} ckbinarsys "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4ckbinarsys\f1 \- determine whether remote system can accept binary messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4ckbinarsys\fP
[\f4\-S\fP]
\f4\-s\fP \f2remote_system_name\fP
\f4\-t\fP \f2content_type\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Because \f4rmail\f1 can transport binary data, it may be important to
determine whether a particular remote system (typically the next hop)
can handle binary data via the chosen transport layer agent (uux, SMTP, etc.)
.PP
\f4ckbinarsys\fP consults the file \f4/etc/mail/binarsys\f1 for information on
a specific remote system.
\f4ckbinarsys\f1 returns its results via an appropriate exit code.
An exit code of zero implies that it is OK to send a message with the
indicated content type to the system specified.
An exit code other than zero indicates that the
remote system cannot properly handle messages with binary content.
.PP
The absence of the \f4binarsys\f1 file will cause
\f4ckbinarsys\f1 to exit with a non-zero exit code.
.PP
Command-line arguments are:
.sp .5
.PD 0
.TP 17
\f4\-s\f2\0remote_system_name\f1
Name of remote system to look up in \f4/etc/mail/binarsys\f1
.TP
\f4\-t\f2\0content_type\f1
Content type of message to be sent.
When invoked by \f4rmail\f1,
this will be one of two strings:
\f4text\f1 or \f4binary\f1,
as determined by \f4mail\f1
independent of any \f4Content-Type:\f1 header lines that may be
present within the message header.
All other arguments are treated as equivalent to \f4binary\f1.
.TP
\f4\-S\f1
Normally, \f4ckbinarsys\fP will print a message (if the binary mail is rejected)
which would be suitable for \f4rmail\fP to return in the negative acknowledgement mail.
When \f4\-S\fP is specified, no message will be printed.
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 27
\f4/etc/mail/binarsys\f1
.TP 27
\f4/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/ckbinarsys\f1
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4mailsurr\f1(4),
\f4binarsys\f1(4)
.br
\f4mail\f1(1),
\f4uux\f1(1) in the \f2User's Reference Manual\f1.
.Ee
