'\"!  tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.maillock %W% of %G%
'\" t
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} maillock 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} maillock 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} maillock 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} maillock "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4maillock\f1 \- manage lockfile for user's mailbox
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4cc [flag...] file ... \-lmail\f1
.P
\f4#include <maillock.h>\f1
.P
\f4int maillock (char *user, int retrycnt);\f1
.P
\f4int mailunlock();\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4maillock\f1 function attempts to create a lockfile for the
user's mailfile.
If a lockfile already exists, \f4maillock\f1 assumes the
contents of the file is the process
.SM ID
(as a null-terminated
.SM ASCII
string)
of the process that created the
lockfile (presumably with a call to \f4maillock\f1).
If the process that created the lockfile is still alive,
\f4maillock\f1 will sleep and try
again \f2retrycnt\f1 times before returning with an error indication.
The sleep algorithm is to sleep for 5 seconds times the attempt number.
That is, the first sleep will be for 5 seconds, the next sleep will be for
10 seconds, etc. until the number of attempts reaches \f2retrycnt\f1.
When the lockfile is no longer needed, it should be removed
by calling \f4mailunlock\f1.
.PP
.I user
is the login name of the user for whose mailbox the lockfile will be created.
\f4maillock\f1 assumes that users' mailfiles are in the ``standard''
place as defined in \f4<maillock.h>\f1.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The following return code definitions are contained in \f4<maillock.h>\f1.
.P
.TS
center ;
lf4 lf4 lf4 lf4.
#define	L_SUCCESS	0	/\(** Lockfile created or removed \(**/
#define	L_NAMELEN	1	/\(** Recipient name > 13 chars \(**/
#define	L_TMPLOCK	2	/\(** Can't create tmp file \(**/
#define	L_TMPWRITE	3	/\(** Can't write pid into lockfile \(**/
#define	L_MAXTRYS	4	/\(** Failed after retrycnt attempts \(**/
#define	L_ERROR	5	/\(** Check errno for reason \(**/
.TE
.SH FILES
.nf
.ft 4
/usr/lib/llib-mail.ln
/usr/lib/libmail.a
/var/mail/\(**
/var/mail/\(**.lock
.ft 1
.fi
.SH NOTES
\f4mailunlock\f1 will only remove the lockfile created from the most
previous call to \f4maillock\f1.
Calling \f4maillock\f1 for different users
without intervening calls to \f4mailunlock\f1 will cause the initially
created lockfile(s) to remain, potentially blocking subsequent message
delivery until the current process finally terminates.
