'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g4.mailcnfg %W% of %G%
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} mailcnfg 4 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} mailcnfg 4 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} mailcnfg 4 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} mailcnfg "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4mailcnfg\f1 \- initialization information for \f4mail\fP and \f4rmail\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4/etc/mail/mailcnfg\fP file contains initialization information for
the \f4mail\fP and \f4rmail\fP commands.
Each entry in \f4mailcnfg\f1 consists of a line of the form
.P
.RS 20
\f2Keyword\f4 = \f2Value\f1
.RE
.P
Leading whitespace, whitespace surrounding the equal sign, and trailing
whitespace is ignored.
\f2Keyword\fP may not contain embedded whitespace,
but whitespace may appear within \f2Value\fP.
Undefined keywords or badly formed entries are silently ignored.
.SS Keyword Definitions
.TP 20
\f4DEBUG\fP
Takes the same values as the \f4\-x\fP invocation option of \f4mail\fP.
This provides a way of setting a system-wide debug/tracing level.
Typically \f4DEBUG\fP is set to a value of 2, which provides minimal diagnostics
useful for debugging \f4mail\fP and \f4rmail\fP failures.  The value of the
\f4\-x\fP \f4mail\fP invocation option will override any specification of
\f4DEBUG\fP in \f4mailcnfg\fP.
.TP 20
\f4CLUSTER\fP
To identify a closely coupled set of systems by one name to
all other systems, set \f2Value\fP to the cluster name.
This string is used to supply the \f5...remote from...\fP information
on the \f5From\fP header line rather than the system nodename returned by
\f4uname\fP(2).
.TP 20
\f4FAILSAFE\fP
In the event that the \f4/var/mail\fP directory is accessed via RFS or NFS within
a cluster (see \f4CLUSTER\fP above),
provisions must be made to allow for the directory not being available
when local mail is to be delivered (remote system crash, RFS or NFS problems,
etc.).  \f2Value\fP is a string that indicates where to forward the
current message for delivery.  Typically this is the remote system
that actually \f2owns\fP \f4/var/mail\fP.  In this way, the message is
queued for delivery to that system when it becomes available.
For example, assume a cluster of systems (\f4sysa\fP, \f4sysb\fP, \f4sysc\fP) where
\f4/var/mail\fP is physically mounted on \f4sysc\fP and made available to the
other machines via RFS or NFS.
If \f4sysc\fP were to crash,
the RFS/NFS-accessible \f4/var/mail\fP would become unavailable
and local deliveries of mail would go to \f4/var/mail\fP on the local
system. When \f4/var/mail\fP is re-mounted via RFS/NFS, all messages
deposited in the local directory would be hidden and essentially lost.
To prevent this, if \f4FAILSAFE\fP is defined in \f4mailcnfg\fP,
\f4mail\fP and \f4rmail\fP check for the existence of
\f4/var/mail/:saved\fP, a required subdirectory.
If this subdirectory does not exist, \f4mail\fP assumes that
the RFS/NFS-accessible \f4/var/mail\fP is not available and invokes the
failsafe mechanism of automatically forwarding the message to \f2Value\fP.
In this example \f2Value\fP would be \f4sysc!%n\fP.
The \f4%\f2n\f1 keyword is expanded to be the recipient name
[see \f4mail\fP(1) for details]
and thus the message would be forwarded to \f4sysc\fP!\f2recipient_name\fP.
Because \f4sysc\fP is not available, the message remains on the local system
until \f4sysc\fP is available, and then sent there for delivery.
.TP 20
\f4DEL_EMPTY_MFILE\fP
If not specified, the default action of \f4mail\fP and \f4rmail\fP is to
delete empty mailfiles if the permissions are 0660 and to retain empty
mailfiles if the permissions are anything else.
If \f2Value\fP is \f4yes\fP, empty mailfiles are always deleted,
regardless of file permissions.
If \f2Value\fP is \f4no\fP, empty mailfiles are never deleted.
.TP 20
\f4DOMAIN\fP
This string is used to supply the system domain name in place of the
domain name returned by \f4getdomainame\fP(3).
.TP 20
\f4SMARTERHOST\fP
This string may be set to a smarter host which may be referenced within the
mail surrogate file via \f4%\&X\f1.
.TP 20
\f4%\f2mailsurr_keyword\f1
As described in \f4mailsurr\fP(4), certain pre-defined single letter keywords
are textually substituted in surrogate command fields before they are
executed.
While none of the predefined keywords may be changed in meaning,
new ones may be defined to provide a shorthand notation for long strings
(such as \f4/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd\fP) which may appear repeatedly within
the \f4mailsurr\fP file.
Upper case letters are reserved for future use and will be ignored if
encountered here.
.SH FILES
.ft 4
.nf
/etc/mail/mailcnfg
/etc/mail/mailsurr
/var/mail/:saved
/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd
.fi
.ft 1
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4mailsurr\fP(4)
.br
\f4mail\fP(1) in the \f2User's Reference Manual\f1
.br
\f4uname\fP(2),
\f4getdomainame\fP(3) in the \f2Programmer's Reference Manual\f1
.SH NOTES
If \f4/var/mail\fP is accessed via RFS or NFS and the subdirectory
\f4/var/mail/:saved\fP is not removed from the local system,
the \f4FAILSAFE\fP mechanism will be subverted.
