'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.mailalias %W% of %G%
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} mailalias 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} mailalias 1 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} mailalias 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} mailalias "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4mailalias\f1 \- translate mail alias names
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4mailalias\f1 [ \f4\-s\f1 ] [ \f4\-v\f1 ]
.I name
\&...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4mailalias\fP
is called by
\f4mail\fP.
It places on the standard output a list of mail addresses corresponding to
.IR name .
The mail addresses are found by performing the following steps:
.TP 4
1.
Look for the file \f4/var/mail/\f2name\f1.
If found, print
.I name
and exit.
.TP 4
2.
Look for a match in the user's local alias file
\f4$HOME/lib/names\f1.
If a line is found beginning with the word
.IR name ,
print the rest of the line on standard output and exit.
.TP 4
3.
Look for a match in the system-wide alias files,
which are listed in the master path file
\f4/etc/mail/namefiles\f1.
If a line is found beginning with the word
.IR name ,
print the rest of the line on standard output and exit.
.P
If an alias file is a directory name \f2dir\fP, then search the file
\f2dir\fP/\f2name\fP.
By default, the file \f4/etc/mail/namefiles\fP lists 
the directory \f4/etc/mail/lists\fP
and 
the file \f4/etc/mail/names\f1.
.TP 4
4.
Otherwise print
.I name
and exit.
.PP
The alias files may contain comments (lines beginning with
\f4#\f1)
and information lines of the form:
.IP
.I "name\0list-of-addresses"
.PP
Tokens on these lines are separated by white-space.
Lines may be continued by placing a backslash (\e) at the end of the line.
.PP
If the
\f4-s\f1
option is not specified and more than one name is being translated, each line
of output will be prefixed with the name being translated.
.PP
The
\f4-v\f1
option causes debugging information to be written to standard output.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30n
\f4$HOME/lib/names\f1
private aliases
.TP
\f4/etc/mail/namefiles\f1
list of files to search
.TP
\f4/etc/mail/names\f1
standard file to search
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4uucp\fP(1), 
\f4mail\fP(1).
.br
\f4smtp\fP(1M),
\f4smtpd\fP(1M),
\f4smtpqer\fP(1M),
\f4smtpsched\fP(1M),
\f4tosmtp\fP(1M) in the \f2System Administrator's Reference Manual\f1.
