'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g4.mailsurr %W% of %G%
.\"  Emphasis
.de Em
\f2\\$1\fP\\$2
..
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} mailsurr 4 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} mailsurr 4 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} mailsurr 4 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} mailsurr "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4mailsurr\f1 \- surrogate commands for routing and transport of mail
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4mailsurr\f1 file contains routing and transport surrogate
commands used by the \f4mail\fP command.
Each entry in \f4mailsurr\f1 has three whitespace-separated,
single quote delimited fields:
.P
.RS
.ft 4
\&'\f2sender\fP'   '\f2recipient\fP'   '\f2command\fP'
.ft 1
.RE
.P
or a line that begins
.P
.RS
.ft 4
Defaults:
.ft 1
.RE
.P
Entries and fields may span multiple lines,
but leading whitespace on field continuation lines is ignored.
Fields must be less than 1024 characters long after expansion (see
below).
.PP
The sender and recipient fields are regular expressions.
If the sender and recipient fields match those of the message currently
being processed, the associated command is invoked.
.PP
The \f2command\fP field may have one of the following five forms:
.P
.RS
.ft 4
.nf
\f4A\f1[\f4ccept\f1]
\f4D\f1[\f4eny\f1]
\f4T\f1[\f4ranslate\f1] \f4R=\f1[\f4\(bv\f1]\f2string\f1
\f4< S=...;C=...;F=...;\f2 command\f1
\f4>\fP \f2command\f1
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.SS "Regular Expressions"
The sender and recipient fields are composed of regular
expressions (REs) which are digested by the \f4regexp\fP(5)
\f4compile\fP and \f4advance\fP procedures
in the C library.
The regular expressions matched are those from \f4ed\fP(1), with simple
parentheses \f4()\fP playing the role of \f4\e(\e)\fP and the addition of
the \f4+\fP and \f4?\fP operators from \f4egrep\fP(1).
Any single quotes embedded within the REs
.Em must
be escaped by prepending them with a backslash or
the RE is not interpreted properly.
.PP
The \f4mail\fP command prepends a circumflex (\f4^\f1)
to the start and appends a dollar sign (\f4$\f1) to the
end of each RE so that it matches the entire string.
Therefore it would be an error
to use \f4^\f2RE\f4$\f1 in the sender and recipient fields.
To provide case insensitivity, all REs are
converted to lower case before compilation,
and all sender and recipient information is converted to
lower case before comparison.
This conversion is done only for the purposes of RE pattern matching;
the information contained within the
message's header is
.Em not
modified.
.PP
The sub-expression pattern matching capabilities of \f4regexp\fP may be used
in the command field,
that is, \f4(\f1...\f4)\f1, where 1 \(<= \f2n\fP \(<= 9.
Any occurrences of \f4\e\e\f2n\f1 in the
replacement string are themselves replaced by the corresponding \f4(\f1...\f4)\f1
substring in the matched pattern.
The sub-expression fields from both the sender and recipient fields are
accessible, with the fields numbered 1 to 9 from left to right.
.SS "Accept and Deny Commands"
\f4Accept\fP instructs \f4rmail\fP to continue its processing with the \f4mailsurr\f1
file,
but to ignore any subsequent matching \f4Deny\fP.
That is, unconditionally accept this message for delivery processing.
\f4Deny\fP instructs \f4rmail\fP to stop processing the \f4mailsurr\f1 file
and to send a negative delivery notification to the originator of the message.
Whichever is encountered first takes precedence.
.SS "Translate Command"
\f4Translate\fP allows optional on-the-fly translation of recipient address
information.
The \f2recipient\fP replacement string is specified as \f4R=\f2string\f1.
.PP
For example, given a command line of the form
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\f4\&'.+' '([^!]+)@(.+)\e.EUO\e.ATT\e.com' 'Translate R=attmail!\e\e2!\e\e1'\f1
.fi
.RE
.P
and a recipient address of \f4rob@sysa.EUO.ATT.COM\fP
the resulting recipient address would be \f4attmail!sysa!rob\fP.
.PP
Should the first character after the equal sign be a `\(bv',
the remainder of the string is taken as a command line
to be directly executed by \f4rmail\fP.
If any \f4sh\fP(1) syntax is required
(metacharacters, redirection, etc.),
then the surrogate command must be of the form:
.P
.RS
\f4sh \-c "\f2shell command line...\f4"\f1
.RE
.P
Special care must be taken to escape properly any embedded back-slashes
and single or double quotes,
since \f4rmail\fP uses double quoting to group
whitespace delimited fields that are meant to be considered as a single
argument to \f4execl\fP(2).
It is assumed that the executed command will write one or more replacement
strings on \f4stdout\fP, one per line.
If more than one line is returned,
each is assumed to be a different recipient for the message.
This mechanism is useful for mailing list expansions.
As stated above, any occurrences of \f4\e\e\f2n\f1 are replaced by the
appropriate substring
.Em before
the command is executed.
If the invoked command does not return at least one replacement string
(no output or just a newline),
the original string is
.Em not
modified.
For example, the command line
.P
.RS
\f4\&'.+'	'(.+)' 'Translate R=\(bv/usr/bin/findpath \e\e1'\fP
.RE
.P
allows local routing decisions to be made.
.PP
If the recipient address string is modified, \f4mailsurr\fP
is rescanned from the beginning with the new address(es),
and any prior determination of \f4Accept\fP (see above) is discarded.
.SS "\f4<\fP \f2command\fP"
The intent of a \f4<\fP command is that it is invoked as part of the transport
and delivery mechanism,
with the ready-for-delivery message available to the command
at its standard input.
As such, there are three conditions possible when the command exits:
.RS
.TP 10
Success
The command successfully delivered the message.
What actually constitutes successful delivery may be different
within the context of different surrogates.
The \f4rmail\fP process assumes that no more processing
is required for the message for the current recipient.
.TP 10
Continue
The command performed some function
(logging remote message traffic, for example)
but did not do what would be considered message delivery.
The \f4rmail\fP process continues to scan the
\f4mailsurr\f1 file looking for some
other delivery mechanism.
.TP 10
Failure
The command encountered some catastrophic failure.
The \f4rmail\fP process
stops processing the message and sends to the originator of the message
a non-delivery notification that includes any \f4stdout\fP and \f4stderr\fP
output generated by the command.
.RE
.PP
The semantics of the \f4<\fP command field in the \f4mailsurr\fP file allow
the specification of exit codes that constitute success, continue, and
failure for each surrogate command individually.
The syntax of the exit state specification is:
.P
.RS
.nf
\f4<\f1 WS [\f2exit_state_id\f4=\f2ec\f1[\f4,\f2ec\f1[,...]]\f4;\f1][\f2exit_state_id\f4=\f2ec\f1[,\f2ec\f1[,...]]\f4;\f1
        [...]]] WS\0\f2surrogate_cmd_line\f1
.fi
.RE
.P
.SM 
.I WS
is whitespace.
\f2exit_state_id\fP can have the value \f4S\fP, \f4C\fP, or \f4F\fP.
\f2exit_state_id\fPs can be specified in any order.
\f2ec\fP can
be:
.IP
any integer 0 \(<= \f2n\fP \(<= 255
[Negative exit values are not possible.
See \f4exit\fP(2) and \f4wait\fP(2).]
.IP
a range of integers of the form \f2lower_limit\f1\-\f2upper_limit\f1
where the limits are \(>= 0 and \(<= 255, and
.IP
\f4\(**\fP, which implies \f2anything\fP
.PP
For example, a command field of the form:
.P
.RS
\&'\f4< S=1-5,99;C=0,12;F=\(**;   \f2command\fP %R'\f1
.RE
.P
indicates that exit values of 1 through 5, and 99,
are to be considered success,
values of 0 (zero) and 12 indicate continue,
and that anything else implies failure.
If not explicitly supplied, default settings are \f4S=0;C=\(**;\fP.
.PP
It may be possible for ambiguous entries to exist
if two exit states have the same
value, for example,  \f4S=12,23;C=\(**;F=23,52\fP; or \f4S=\(**;C=9;F=\(**;\fP.
To account for this, \f4rmail\fP looks for
.Em explicit
exit
values (that is,
.Em not
\&``\(**'') in
order of success, continue, failure.
Not finding an explicit match,
\f4rmail\fP then scans for ``\(**'' in the same order.
.PP
It is possible to eliminate an exit state completely by setting that
state's value to an impossible number.
Since exit values must be between 0 and 255 (inclusive),
a value of 256 is a good one to use.
For example, if you had a surrogate command that was to log all message
traffic, a \f4mailsurr\f1 entry of
.P
.RS 2
.nf
\f4\&'(.+)'\0'(.+)'\0'\f4<\fPS=256;C=*;\0/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/logger \e\e1 \e\e2'\f1
.fi
.RE
.P
would always indicate continue.
.PP
Surrogate commands are executed by \f4rmail\fP directly.
If any shell syntax is required
(metacharacters, redirection, etc.),
then the surrogate command must be of the form:
.P
.RS
\f4sh \-c "\f2shell command line...\f4"\f1
.RE
.P
Special care must be taken to properly escape any embedded
back-slashes and other characters special to the shell
as stated in the ``Translate'' section above.
.PP
If there are no matching \f4<\fP commands,
or all matching \f4<\fP commands exit with a continue indication,
\f4rmail\fP attempts to deliver the message itself by assuming
that the recipient is local and delivering
the message to \f4/var/mail/\fP\f2recipient\fP.
.SS "\f4>\f1 command"
The intent of a \f4>\fP command is that it is invoked
.Em after
a successful delivery to do any post-delivery processing that may be required.
Matching \f4>\fP commands are executed only if some \f4<\fP command indicates a
successful delivery (see the previous section)
or local delivery processing is successful.
The \f4mailsurr\f1 file is rescanned and
all matching \f4>\fP commands,
not just those following the successful \f4<\fP command,
are executed in order.
The exit status of an \f4>\fP command is ignored.
.SS "Defaults: Line"
The default settings may be redefined by creating a separate
line in the \f4mailsurr\f1 file of the form
.P
.RS
.nf
\f4Defaults: \f1[\f4S=\f1...\f4;\f1][\f4C=\f1...\f4;\f1][\f4F\f1=...\f4;\f1]
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.P
\f4Defaults:\fP lines are honored and the indicated default values
redefined when the line is encountered during the normal processing
of the \f4mailsurr\f1 file.
Therefore, to redefine the defaults globally, the \f4Defaults:\fP
line should be the first line in the file.
It is possible to have multiple \f4Defaults:\fP lines in the \f4mailsurr\f1 file,
where each subsequent line overrides the previous one.
.SS "Surrogate Command Keyword Replacement."
Certain special sequences are textually-substituted
in surrogate commands before they are invoked:
.P
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 11
\f4%n\f1
the recipient's full name.
.TP
\f4%R\f1
the full return path to the originator (useful for sending replies,
delivery failure notifications, etc.)
.TP
\f4%c\f1
value of the \f5Content-Type:\fP header line if present.
.TP
\f4%C\f1
\&``\f5text\fP'' or ``\f5binary\fP'', depending on an actual scan of the content.
This is independent of the value of any \f5Content-Type\fP header line encountered
(useful when calling \f4ckbinarsys\fP.)
.TP
\f4%S\f1
the value of the \f5Subject:\fP header line, if present.
.TP
\f4%l\f1
value of the \f5Content-Length:\fP header line.
.TP
\f4%L\f1
the local system name.
This will be either \f4CLUSTER\fP from \f4mailcnfg\fP or the value returned
by \f4uname\fP.
.TP
\f4%U\f1
the local system name, as returned by \f4uname\fP.
.TP
\f4%X\f1
the value of \f4SMARTERHOST\fP in \f4mailcnfg\fP.
.TP
\f4%D\f1
the local domain name.
This will be either \f4DOMAIN\fP from \f4mailcnfg\fP, or the value returned by
\f4getdomainame\fP.
.TP
\f4\e\e\f2n\f1
as described above, the corresponding (...)
substring in the matched patterns.
This implies that the \f4regexp\fP limitation of 9 substrings is applied
to the sender and recipient REs collectively.
.TP
\f4%\f2keywords\f1
Other keywords as specified in \f4/etc/mail/mailcnfg\fP.
See \f4mailcnfg\fP(4).
.RE
The sequences \f4%L\fP, \f4%U\fP, \f4%D\fP, and \f4%\f2keywords\f1 are
permitted within the sender and recipient fields as well as in the command
fields.
.PD
.PP
An example of the \f4mailsurr\f1 entry that replaces the
\f4uux\fP ``built-in'' of previous versions of \f4rmail\fP is:
.P
.RS
.nf
\f4\&'.+'	'([^@!]+)!(.+)'	'< /usr/bin/uux \- \e\e1!rmail (\e\e2)'\fP
.fi
.RE
.SS "Mail Surrogate Examples"
Some examples of mail surrogates include the distribution of message-waiting
notifications to LAN-based recipients and lighting Message-Waiting Lamps,
the ability to mail output to printers,
and the logging of all \f4rmail\fP requests between remote systems
(messages passing through the local system).
The following is a sample \f4mailsurr\f1 file:
.P
.nf
.ft 4
\s-1#
# Some common remote mail surrogates follow. To activate any
# or all of them, remove the `#' (comment indicators) from
# the beginning of the appropriate lines. Remember that they
# will be tried in the order they are encountered in the file,
# so put preferred surrogates first.
  
#	Prevent all shell meta-characters
\&'.+'	'.*[`;&|^<>()].*'       'Deny'
  
#	Map all names of the form local-machine!user -> user
\&'.+'	'%L!(.+)'               'Translate R=\\1'
  
#	Map all names of the form uname!user -> user
#	Must be turned on when using mail in a cluster environment.
#'.+'	'%U!(.+)'               'Translate R=\\1'
  
#	Map all names of the form user@host -> host!user
\&'.+'	'([^!@]+)@(.+)'         'Translate R=\\2!\\1'
  
#	Map all names of the form host.uucp!user -> host!user
\&'.+'	'([^!@]+)\\.uucp!(.+)'  'Translate R=\\1!\\2'
  
#	Map all names of the form host.local-domain!user -> host!user
#	DOMAIN= within /etc/mail/mailcnfg will override getdomainame(3).
\&'.+'	'([^!@]+)%D!(.+)'       'Translate R=\\1!\\2'
  
#	Allow access to `attmail' from remote system `sysa'
\&'sysa!.*'	'attmail!.+'    'Accept'
  
#	Deny access to `attmail' from all other remotes	
\&'.+!.+'	'attmail!.+'    'Deny'
  
#	Send mail for `laser' to attached laser printer
#	Make certain that failures are reported via return mail.
\&'.+'	'laser'	'\f4<\fP S=0;F=*; lp \-dlaser'
  
#	Run all local names through the mail alias processor
#
\&'.+'	'[^!@]+'         'Translate R=|/usr/bin/mailalias %n'
  
#	For remote mail via nusend
#'.+'	'([^!]+)!(.+)'   '\f4<\fP /usr/bin/nusend \-d \e\e1 \-s \-e \-!"rmail \e\e2" \-'
  
#	For remote mail via usend
\&'.+'	'([^!]+)!(.+)'
         '\f4<\fP /usr/bin/usend \-s \-d\e\e1 \-uNoLogin \-!"rmail \e\e2" \- '
  
#	For remote mail via uucp
\&'.+'	'([^!@]+)!.+'   '\f4<\fPS=256;C=0;
  		/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/ckbinarsys \-t %C \-s \e\e1'
\&'.+'	'([^!@]+)!(.+)'   '\f4<\fP /usr/bin/uux \- \e\e1!rmail (\e\e2)'
  
#	For remote mail via smtp
#'.+'	'([^!@]+)!(.+)'         '< /usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smtpqer %R %n'
  
#	If none of the above work, then let a router change the address.
#'.+'	'.*[!@].*'      'Translate R=| /usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smail -A %n'
  
#	If none of the above work, then ship remote mail off to a smarter host.
#	Make certain that SMARTERHOST= is defined within /etc/mail/mailcnfg.
#'.+'	'.*[!@].*'              'Translate R=%X!%n'
  
#	Log successful message deliveries
\&'(.+)' '(.+)' '\f4>\fP/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/logger \\1 \\2'\s0
.ft 1
.fi
.PP
Note that invoking \f4mail\fP to read mail does not
involve the \f4mailsurr\f1 file or any surrogate processing.
.SS "Security"
Surrogate commands execute
with the permissions of \f4rmail\fP (user \s-1ID\s+1 of the invoker,
group \s-1ID\s+1 of mail).
This allows surrogate commands to validate themselves,
checking that their effective group \s-1ID\s+1 was \f4mail\fP at invocation time.
This requires that all additions to \f4mailsurr\f1 be scrutinized before
insertion to prevent any unauthorized access to users' mail files.
All surrogate commands are executed with the path
\f4/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd:/usr/bin\fP.
.SS "Debugging New \f4mailsurr\f1 Entries"
To debug \f4mailsurr\fP files,
use the \f4\-T\fP option of the \f4mail\fP command.
The \f4\-T\fP option requires an argument that is taken as the
pathname of a test \f4mailsurr\fP file.
If null (as in \f4\-T ""\fP),
the system \f4mailsurr\f1 file is used.
Enter
.P
.RS
.nf
\f4mail\ \-T \f2test_file\0recipient\f1
.fi
.RE
.P
and some trivial message (like ``\f4testing\fP''),
followed by a line with either just a dot (``\f4.\fP'') or a cntl-D.
The result of using the \f4\-T\fP option is displayed on standard output and
shows the inputs and resulting transformations as \f4mailsurr\f1 is
processed by the \f4mail\fP command for the indicated \f2recipient\fP.
.PP
Mail messages will never be sent or delivered when using the \f4\-T\fP option.
.SH "FILES"
.PD 0
.TP 27
\f4/etc/mail/mailsurr\fP
.TP 27
\f4/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/\(**\fP
surrogate commands
.TP 27
\f4/etc/mail/mailcnfg\fP
initialization information for \f4mail\fP
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4ckbinarsys\fP(1M),
\f4mailcnfg\fP(4)
.br
\f4mail\fP(1),
\f4sh\fP(1),
\f4uux\fP(1),
\f4ed\fP(1),
\f4egrep\fP(1),
in the \f2User's Reference Manual\f1
.br
\f4exec\fP(2),
\f4exit\fP(2),
\f4wait\fP(2),
\f4popen\fP(3),
\f4regexp\fP(5),
\f4getdomainname\f1(3)
in the \f2Programmer's Reference Manual\f1
.SH "NOTES"
It would be unwise to install new entries into the system
\f4mailsurr\f1 file without verifying at least their syntactical
correctness via `\f4mail\fP \f4\-\T\fP \f2...\fP' as described above.
