'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1a.smtpqer %W% of %G%
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} smtpqer 1M "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} smtpqer 1M ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} smtpqer 1M "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} smtpqer "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4smtpqer\fP \- queue mail for delivery by \s-1SMTP\s+1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4smtpqer\f1 [ \f4\-nu\f1 ] [ \f4\-a\f2 toaddr\f1 ] [ \f4\-d\f2 domain\f1 ]
[ \f4\-H\f2 helohost \f1]\f2 sender host recip ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4smtpqer\fP queues the mail message it reads from standard input for
eventual delivery by \f4smtp\fP.
The message is queued for delivery to the host specified in the \f2to\fP address.
.P
\f4smtpqer\fP should normally be invoked by the \f4mail\fP command by placing
the following line in \f4/etc/mail/mailsurr\fP:
.P
.nf
 \f4\(aa.+\(aa \(aa([^!@]+)!(.+)\(aa \(aa< /usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smtpqer %R \e\e1 \e\e2\(aa\fP
.fi
.P
\f4smtpqer\fP will check the host name in the \f2to\fP address.
If it is one that can be reached (i.e., if \f4netdir_getbyname\fP(3) can find
it on at least one
.SM TLI
network), the message will be queued, and
\f4smtpqer\fP will exit with a return code of 0 (which means the mail
was successfully queued).
Otherwise, it will return with an exit code of 1, and the message will
not be queued.
.P
Messages that are queued are stored in a file under the
.SM SMTP
queue directory (\f4/var/spool/smtpq\fP).
If the \f4\-u\fP option is not used, they are first converted to RFC822
format, by filtering them through the program \f4tosmtp\fP.
Finally, \f4smtpqer\fP invokes the \f4smtpsched\fP program to
deliver the mail.
.P
The \f4\-H\fP option is used to specify the host name that should
be used in the
.SM SMTP
.SM HELO
message.
This option is passed to both the \f4tosmtp\fP and \f4smtp\fP programs.
.P
The \f4\-d\fP option is used to specify the domain name that should
be used for your host.
This option is passed to the \f4tosmtp\fP program.
If this option is not used, and a domain has been specified in the
mail configuration file \f2mailcnfg\fP, that domain will be used instead.
.P
The \f4\-a\fP option is used to specify the ``to address'' that is passed
to the \f4smtp\fP program.
Finally, the \f4\-n\fP option is used to prevent \f4smtpqer\fP from starting
an \f4smtpsched\fP process to deliver the mail.
.SH FILES
.TP 25n
\f4/usr/bin/rmail\fP
where mail originates from
.TP
\f4/etc/hosts\fP
database of remote hosts (for \s-1TCP/IP\s+1)
.TP
\f4/etc/mail/mailcnfg\fP
mail configuration file
.TP
\f4/etc/net/\(**/hosts\fP
database of remote hosts (for other \s-1TLI\s+1 networks)
.TP
\f4/etc/mail/mailsurr\fP
control file containing rule to invoke \f4smtpqer\fP
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smtpsched\fP
program to process message queues
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smtp\fP
program that passes message to remote host
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/tosmtp\fP
filter to convert to RFC822 format
.TP
\f4/var/spool/smtpq\fP
where messages are queued
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4rmail\fP(1M), \f4smtpsched\fP(1M), \f4smtp\fP(1M), \f4tosmtp\fP(1M)
.br
\f4getdomainname\fP(3) in the \f2Programmer's Reference Manual\f1.
.br
RFC822 \- Standard for the Format of \s-1ARPA\s+1 Internet Text Messages
