'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1a.smtp %W% of %G%
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} smtp 1M "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} smtp 1M ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} smtp 1M "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} smtp "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4smtp\fP \- send \s-1SMTP\s+1 mail to a remote host using Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4smtp\f1 [ \f4\-D\f1 ] [ \f4\-d\f2 domain\f1 ] [ \f4\-H\f2 helohost\f1 ] \f2sender host recip ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4smtp\fP sends a message to a remote host \f2host\fP using the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
(\s-1SMTP\s+1).
The message is read from standard input.
\f2sender\fP is used to identify the sender of the message and
the \f2recip\fPs are used as the recipients.
.P
When establishing a connection, \f4smtp\fP will use the first transport for which
\f4netdir_getbyname\fP(3) returns an address, based on hostname, transport
[returned from \f4getnetpath\fP(3)], and service \f4smtp\fP.
Normally, this will be the ``tcp'' transport.
.P
The options to \f4smtp\fP and their meanings are as follows:
.TP 12
\f4\-D\fP
This option turns on debugging.
Debugging information is printed on standard error.
.TP 12
\f4\-H\f2 helohost\f1
This option can be used to set the hostname used in
.SM SMTP
.SM HELO
message (this defaults to the system's name).
.TP 12
\f4\-d\f2 domain\f1
This option can be used to set the domain name to be used for this host.
.P
\f4smtp\fP is normally run by the \f4smtpsched\fP process to
deliver mail queued in \f4/var/spool/smtpq\fP.
.SH FILES
.TP
/var/spool/smtpq		where messages are queued
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4smtpsched\fP(1M)
.br
RFC821 \- Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
