'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1a.smtpd %W% of %G%
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} smtpd 1M "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} smtpd 1M ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} smtpd 1M "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} smtpd "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4smtpd\fP \- receive incoming \s-1SMTP\s+1 messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4smtpd\f1 [ \f4\-n\f1 ] [ \f4\-H\f2 helohost \f1] [ \f4\-h\f2 thishost \f1]
[ \f4\-L\f2 loadlim \f1] [ \f4\-l\f2 maxprocs \f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4smtpd\fP is a daemon that normally runs while in multi-user mode,
waiting for requests from remote hosts to send mail.
\f4smtpd\fP listens for these requests on any TLI-based network for which the
.SM SMTP
service is defined (to \f4netdir_getbyname\fP(3)).
Normally, this will only be the ``tcp'' network.
As requests are received, \f4smtpd\fP will fork off child \f4smtpd\fP
processes to handle each individual
.SM SMTP
transaction.
.P
The options to \f4smtpd\fP and their meanings are as follows:
.TP 12
\f4\-n\fP
Do not create \f4smtpsched\fP processes to process the incoming mail.
Rely on the hourly \f4cron\fP(1) invocation of \f4smtpsched\fP instead.
.TP
\f4\-H\f2 helohost\f1
This option can be used to specify the name to be used for the host in the
initial
.SM SMTP
.SM HELO
message.
If it is not specified, the name used in the
.SM HELO
message defaults to the
system node name.
.TP
\f4\-h\f2 thishost\f1
Specify the network name to be prepended onto the sender path in the
\f4From\fP line of the message.
This option is passed through to the \f4fromsmtp\fP program.
.TP
\f4\-L\f2 loadlim\f1
Specify the maximum load at which \f4smtpd\fP will
create children.
If this option is not specified, there is no limit to the load at which
children may run.
The load is determined by reading the kernel variable \f4avenrun\fP.
.TP
\f4\-l\f2 maxprocs\f1
This option is used to specify the maximum number of children of \f4smtpd\fP
that can be running at once.
Each child handles one
.SM SMTP
conversation.
If this option is not specified, there is no limit to the number of children
that may run.
.P
Mail that is successfully received is piped to the \f4fromsmtp\fP command,
which in turn delivers the mail by piping it to \f4rmail\fP.
A log of all \f4smtpd\fP's activities is kept in the file
\f4/var/spool/smtpq/LOG\fP.
.SH FILES
.TP 25n
\f4/dev/kmem\fP
To get the current machine load (avenrun)
.TP
\f4/etc/services\fP
List of TCP/UDP services (SMTP should be 25/tcp)
.TP
\f4/etc/net/\(**/services\fP
List of other TLI networks' services
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/fromsmtp\fP
Where incoming mail is piped to
.TP
\f4/var/spool/smtpq/LOG\fP
Log of smtpd transactions
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4cron\fP(1M), \f4fromsmtp\fP(1M), \f4smtp\fP(1M)
