'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1a.smtpsched %W% of %G%
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} smtpsched 1M "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} smtpsched 1M ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} smtpsched 1M "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} smtpsched "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4smtpsched\fP \- process messages queued in the \s-1SMTP\s+1 mail queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4smtpsched\f1 [ \f4\-c\f1 ] [ \f4\-v\f1 ] [ \f4\-t\f1 ] [ \f4\-s\f2 scheds\f1 ]
[ \f4\-r\f2 days\f1 ] [ \f4\-w\f2 days\f1 ] [\f2 qnames\f1 ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4smtpsched\fP is used to process the messages queued up in the
.SM SMTP
mail queue \f4/var/spool/smtpq\fP.
It is invoked automatically by the
.SM SMTP
mail surrogate \f4smtpqer\fP,
whenever mail is queued for
.SM SMTP
delivery to a remote host, and by
\f4smtpd\fP whenever incoming mail arrives.
It should also be run once per hour (from \f4cron\fP) to attempt
delivery of any mail that cannot be delivered immediately.
.P
\f4smtpsched\fP will normally attempt to send all messages queued under all
subdirectories of \f4/var/spool/smtpq\fP.
However, if \f2qnames\fP are specified, only those listed subdirectories
of \f4/var/spool/smtpq\fP will be searched for messages to deliver.
The subdirectories each refer to a different remote host.
.P
The options to \f4smtpsched\fP are as follows:
.TP 12
\f4\-c\fP
Causes empty queue directories to be removed.
.TP
\f4\-v\fP
Causes verbose logging to occur.
.TP
\f4\-t\fP
Test mode.
The actions \f4smtpsched\fP would take are logged but not performed.
.TP
\f4\-s\f2 scheds\f1
Specifies the maximum number of concurrent \f4smtpsched\fPs that may be
running at once.
If more than this number is running, \f4smtpsched\fP will exit.
.TP
\f4\-r\f2 days\f1
Causes mail older than \f2days\fP days to be returned.
.TP
\f4\-w\f2 days\f1
Any mail older than \f2days\fP days will trigger a warning message,
which is sent to the originator.
.SH FILES
.TP 35n
\f4/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smtp\fP
delivers the mail
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smtpqer\fP
queues the mail
.TP
\f4/var/spool/smtpq\fP
queued mail messages
.TP
\f4/var/spool/smtpq/LOG*\fP
log files
.TP
\f4/var/spool/smtpq/\f2host\fP\fP
mail messages queued for \f2host\fP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4cron\fP(1M), \f4smtp\fP(1M), \f4smtpqer\fP(1M)
