'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.vacation %W% of %G%
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} vacation 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} vacation 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} vacation 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} vacation "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4vacation\f1 \- automatically respond to incoming mail messages.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4vacation\fP
[\f4\-l\fP \f2logfile\fP]
[\f4\-m\fP \f2mailfile\fP]
[\f4\-M\fP \f2canned_msg_file\fP]
[\f4\-F\fP \f2failsafe\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
When a new mail message arrives,
the \f4mail\fP command first checks if the recipient's mailbox indicates
that the message is to be forwarded elsewhere (to some other recipient or
as the input to some command).
\f4vacation\fP is used to set up forwarding on the user's mailbox so that
the new message is saved into an alternative mailbox and
a canned response is sent to the message's originator.
.PP
Command-line options are:
.PP
.TP 12
\f4\-l\f2\0logfile\f1
.PD 0
File to keep track of which originators have already seen the canned
response.
If not specified, it defaults to \f4$HOME/.maillog\fP.
.TP
\f4\-m\f2\0mailfile\f1
Alternate mailbox to save new messages into.
If not specified, it defaults to \f4$HOME/.mailfile\fP.
.TP
\f4\-M\f2\0canned_msg_file\f1
File to send back as the canned response.
If
.I canned_msg_file
is not specified, it defaults to \f4/usr/lib/mail/std_vac_msg\fP,
which contains:
.PD
.sp .5
.in +1
.nf
\f4Subject: AUTOANSWERED!!!
.sp
I am on vacation. I will read (and answer if necessary)
your e-mail message when I return.
.sp
This message was generated automatically and you will
receive it only once, although all messages you send
me while I am away WILL be saved.\f1
.in -1
.fi
.TP
\f4\-F\f2\0failsafe\f1
If mail has troubles delivering to the mailfile specified, it may optionally
be forwarded to another login id (\f2failsafe\fP) instead of being returned
to the sender.
.TP
\f4\-d\f1
The log file will have the day's date appended.
.PP
To remove the \f4vacation\fP functionality, use
.sp .5
.RS 12
\f4mail\0\-F\0"\^"\fP\0
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
\f4/tmp/notif\(**\fP
temporary file
.TP
\f4/usr/share/lib/mail/std_vac_msg\fP
default canned response
.TP
\f4/var/mail/\(**\fP
users' standard mailboxes
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/mail/vacation2\fP
program that actually sends back the canned response
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4mail\fP(1)
.br
.IR "User\'s Guide" .
.br
.ne 8
.SH NOTES
Because \f4vacation\fP uses the ``\f4Forward to \(bv\f2command\f1'' facility of
\f4mail\fP to implement notifications,
\f4/var/mail/\f2username\f1 should \f4not\fP be specified as the place
to put newly arrived messages via the \f4\-m\fP invocation option.
The \f4mail\fP command uses
\f4/var/mail/\f2username\f1 to hold either mail messages,
\f4or\fP indications of mail forwarding,
but not both simultaneously.
.Ee
