.TH CONNLD 4
.CT 2 sa comm_proc
.SH NAME
conn_ld \- line discipline for unique stream connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/filio.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
This line discipline
provides unique connections
to a server.
The server process should push the line discipline on a pipe
(see
.B FIOPUSHLD 
in
.IR stream (4))
and
.IR fmount (2)
the pipe end on a file.
A subsequent attempt to
.IR open (2)
or
.IR creat
that file causes a new pipe to be created.
A file descriptor for one
end of the new pipe is passed on the mounted pipe to
to the server process as if by
.BR FIOSNDFD ;
see
.IR stream (4).
The
opening process
is blocked until the server responds.
The server should receive the passed file descriptor with
.RB FIORCVFD
and respond in one of the following ways:
.IP \(em
Accept the new file descriptor by performing
.RS
.IP
.L
ioctl(fd, FIOACCEPT, (void *)0);
.RE
.IP
The originating
.I open
completes and returns a file descriptor for the 
other end of the new pipe.
.IP \(em
Write some data on the new file descriptor.
This performs an implicit
.LR FIOACCEPT .
.IP \(em
Pass a different file descriptor:
.RS
.IP
.L
ioctl(fd, FIOSNDFD, &newfd);
.RE
.IP
The originator's end of the new pipe is closed,
and a file descriptor for the open file
designated by
.I newfd
is returned to the originating
.IR open .
.IP \(em
Reject the connection,
by closing the new file descriptor
or by performing
.RS
.IP
.L
ioctl(fd, FIOREJECT, (void *)0);
.RE
.IP
The originating
.I open
fails with
.BR ENXIO 
and the new pipe is discarded.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR fmount (2),
.IR stream (4)
