.TH INTRO 4
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to devices, line disciplines, and file systems
.SH DESCRIPTION
This section describes drivers for
devices,
stream line disciplines,
and file systems.
.PP
Devices are accessed through
special files of type
.L S_IFBLK
(block devices)
or
.L S_IFCHR
(character devices);
see
.IR stat (2).
Block devices use a block buffering scheme
within the system,
so that sectored devices like disks
may be accessed a byte at a time.
Character devices don't use the block buffers.
Only block devices may be mounted as disk file systems.
Most block devices
have associated `raw' character devices
that bypass all buffering for fast direct I/O.
.PP
The device associated with a special file is
identified by a pair of numbers:
a major device number
naming the driver,
and a minor device number
picking some particular device or subunit.
Major numbers are listed in
.IR mknod (8).
Minor numbers are specific to each driver;
see the writeups in this section.
Minor numbers are stored in a single unsigned byte;
they are chosen from the range 0-255.
.PP
Some character devices are also
stream devices.
These use a different internal buffering mechanism
to allow data to flow asynchronously.
Various special operations are possible on streams;
see
.IR stream (4).
.PP
Line disciplines are
processing modules that may be inserted into streams.
They are identified by integers
passed to the calls that insert and remove them.
The C library
contains global variables
initialized to the numbers
for various line disciplines;
.IR stream (4)
has a list.
.PP
There are several different types of file system:
conventional disk volumes,
remote file systems
accessed
by the system sending messages though a stream
to a server as described in
.IR netfs (8),
a file system containing a file representing
each process in the system,
and so on.
All of these
appear the same to ordinary processes,
except that not all file systems
implement all operations;
for example,
a process file has a name,
and may be opened, read, and written
like an ordinary file,
but may not be renamed because
.IR proc (4)
doesn't allow that.
.PP
File system types are
identified by integers,
used by and listed in
.IR fmount (2).
They are just magic numbers at present.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR fmount (2),
.IR stream (4),
.IR mknod (8)
