.PD .2i
.ds or \fP\ |\ \fB
.de cg
.sp
.PP
.ne 5
.B \\$1
.PP
..
.TH CDL 10.5 UCDS(almost obsolete)
.SH NAME
cdl \- circuit description language
.SH DESCRIPTION
The circuit descriptions used by the various design aid programs
are expressed in dialects of the circuit design language described below.
A complete description consists of two parts;
an electrical circuit with chips, pins and connecting signals,
and a physical layout with pins and chip positions.
The commands described below are recommended;
others exist and may work but are regarded as obsolete.
.sp
.PP
.SS LOGICAL DESIGN
.PP
A circuit consists of
.I chips
connected by
.I signals.
The point of connection is denoted by a
.I pin.
Each chip has a
.I type
which describes its logical and electrical
characteristics.
(For example, \fB74S181\fP is a chip type.)
.PP
Types, signals and chips are identified by name.
Pins  are identified by name and number.
A
.I name
is a string of letters,
digits or any of the characters
.BR +\-.\ $\ /:<=>[]\(ul .
Sometimes, the first character
may not be a digit.
A name may not be longer than 16 characters.
.PP
In the following description,
literals appear as
.B bold,
whereas names are in
.I italic.
[ ] enclose an optional item and
a list of items is written
.PP
.RS
{\fIitem\fR}
.RE
.PP
Commands are separated by either newline or
semi-colon.
A comment
starts with a
.B %
and ends with a newline
and may appear on any line.
All white space serves only to separate tokens.
.cg General
.B .p
.I number
.br
Specifies the page number for subsequent input.
.PP
.B .f
[
.I file
]
.br
Subsequent input originated in
.IR file .
If
.I file
is not present, the previous file name is restored.
.PP
.B .q
.br
End of file.
.cg Signal\ Description
.I signal
[
.I pin-number
] [ [
.I ,
]
.I pin-name
]
.br
.I name
=
.I signal
.br
Lines that do not start with a period are signal
definition lines.
Signal definitions refer to the most recent
.B .c
command, the pin name and number refers to the chip.
.cg Circuit\ Description
.B .c
.I name
[ [
.B ,
]
.I type
]
.br
.B .o
.I name
[ [
.B ,
]
.I type
]
.br
Instantiates a chip
.I name,
of type
.IR type .
This is typically used for I/O connectors.
The command may occur more than once.
The type of a chip need only be specified
once in a circuit description.
Signal descriptions that follow
a
.B .c
or
.B .o
command refer to pins on the chip.
.PP
.ne 10
.B .c
.I name
.B =
.I chip
.br
.I chip
must be previously defined and
.I name
is a synonym for
.I chip.
.PP
.B .m
.I name1 name2
.br
Macro parameter definition.
The signal
.I name1
is to be associated with macro parameter
.I name2\|.
.PP
.B .h
.I signal
.br
Hand wired signal.
The argument is the
.I name
of a signal that will be ignored by an
automatic wiring program.
.cg Chip\ Type\ Description
.B .t
.I name package
.RI [ pin ]\ ...
.br
Define a chip type
.I name.
The name of the
.I package
in which it is installed,
and pin numbers,
.I pin,
for the special signal connections
are specified.
The special voltage
pin numbers, if present, must be in the same
sequence with which the special signals are numbered.
This usage is discouraged;
use the \f3.t[tT]\fP commands described below.
(See
.B .v
command.)
All commands of the form ".t?" are meant to follow a .t line.
.PP
.B .t
.I name
.B =
.I type
.br
.I name
is a synonym for
.IR type .
.PP
.BI .tt \ sequence_of_single_character_pin_descriptors
.br
The number of characters must equal the numbers of pins on this \fItype\fP\|.
The meaning of the descriptors is given in \fIwcheck\fP\|.
.PP
.BI .tT \ sequence_of_single_character_pin_descriptors
.br
This means the same as the equivalent
.B .tt
command except that every
.B [gvwxyz]
pin must have a corresponding
.B .vb
pin.
.PP
.B .ta
.I pin1
\&...
.I pin2
\&...
.br
.I pin1
\&...
is the set of address pins, in order,
such that the most significant address bit
appears first in the list.
.I pin2
\&...
is the set of output pins.
.PP
.B .td
.I delay
.I pin1
\&...
.B \-
.I pin2
\&...
.br
The propagation delay (conventionally in nanoseconds) from inputs
.I pin1 ...
to outputs
.I pin2 ...
is given.
.PP
.B .ti
.I hi
.I lo
.I pin
\&...
.br
The input (or output) current range for the set of pins
is given by
.I hi
and
.I lo.
Current is conventionally expressed in milliamperes.
.PP
.B .tp
.I name
.I number
\&...
.br
The given
pin
.I name
is associated with the pin
.I number.
.I Name
may contain generators such as
.B Q[0-7]
which cause pin names
.B Q0
.B \&...
.B Q7
to be assigned to the pin numbers given.
Multiple bracket constructs may be used.
In any case, the resulting list is lexicographically sorted before
assigning to pin numbers.
.PP
.B .ts
.I setup
.I pin
\&...
.br
Specifies the setup time required by the device
at the pins given.
.PP
.B .tw
.I c1
.I c2
.br
.I c1
is the average current drawn by the device
in milliamperes and
.I c2
is the maximum.
Both are specified as floating point numbers.
.SH
.ne 9
.sp
.PP
.B PHYSICAL DESIGN
.PP
The physical design
consists of a
.I board
containing
.IR pin-holes .
The description details the positions of the pin-holes and the
position and orientation of the chips.
No special case is made of I/O connectors;
they are best considered as unmoveable packages.
The description is divided into two files;
details can be found in
.IR board (7).
.PP
The coordinate system for the board is with
.I x
increasing to the right and
.I y
increasing upwards.
The origin is at the lower left corner;
thus, no coordinate should ever be negative.
The circuit board and components mounted on it are described
as rectangles.
They are positioned so that their sides are parallel to one or other
of the axes used to describe circuit board geometry.
Measurements are expressed in
units of
.B 1/100
of an inch.
All are integers and have no explicit decimal point.
Coordinates are expressed as pairs of integers separated by `\fB/\fR'
with
the
.I x
coordinate appearing first.
All rectangular regions are half open;
the upper and right edges are outside the rectangle.
.PP
It is sometimes necessary to provide a list of
coordinates.
Invariably each coordinate is associated with a numbered item
(say, a pin number).
A one item list consists of the item
number followed by its coordinates as in
.RS
.PP
28 170/250
.RE
A series of equally spaced
and consecutively numbered items can be described by
giving the first and last item descriptions and separating the
two with `\fB\-\fR' as in
.RS
.PP
28 170/250 \- 30 190/200
.RE
(item number 29 appears at position 180/225).
If the item numbers are equally spaced but not consecutive
a step size can follow the `\fB\-\fR' as in
.RS
.PP
12 200/700 \-9 147 200/100
.RE
(which describes the positions of items numbered 12, 21, 30 etc.).
.cg Board\ Description
.B .B
.I string
.br
The board name is set to
.IR string .
.PP
.B .A
.I coord coord coord coord
.br
The points used in board alignment are
.IR "coord , coord , coord , coord ."
.PP
.B .K
.I "name pmin pmax ox oy cx cy"
.br
Define a package
.I name
with a bounding rectangle with lower left corner
.I (ox,oy)
and upper right corner
.I (cx,cy)
as values relative to pin
.I pmin
of the package.
The package has pins numbered from
.I pmin
to
.I pmax
inclusive;
expect trouble if
.I pmin
is not zero or one.
Placement of a package involves both its pins and rectangle.
The rectangle must not intersect any other placed package,
and there must be a pin-hole for each of the pins.
.PP
.B .ka
.I anything
.br
After skipping white space
the rest of the line is stored as an artwork reference.
.PP
.B .kd
.I letter
.br
Specifies the drill type for following
.B .kp
commands.
There can be multiple
.B .kd
commands per package.
Currently recognized drill types are found in
\f(CW/usr/jhc/pins/drills\fP.
.PP
.B .kp
.RI {\| pin
.IR coord }
.br
One or more
.B .kp
commands following a
.B .k
command
gives the list of pins
and their coordinates relative to pin
.IR pmin .
.PP
.B .ku
.br
Guarantees this package will not be moved by any automatic process.
.PP
.B .v
.I number name
.br
Define Voltage and Ground special signals.
The special signals are numbered consecutively from zero to five.
The arguments are
the special signal
.I number
and the signal
.I name
to which it corresponds.
.PP
.B .vb
.RI { pin
.IR coord }
.br
Special signal pin positions.
One or more
.B .vb
commands following a
.B .v
command gives the list of pins
and their positions on the circuit board.
The pins should be numbered consecutively from one.
.PP
.B .vd
.I number
.br
Specifies the drill type for following
.B .vb
commands.
There can be multiple
.B .vd
commands.
The types are as descibed for \f3.kd\fP.
.PP
.B .C
.I name coord orientation flags
.br
Specifies the position and orientation for the chip
.IR name .
The orientation is the number of right angles clockwise to
rotate the package.
The meaning of
.I flags
can be found in
.IR /usr/include/cdl.h ;
it should be initialised to zero.
.PP
.B .P
.I coord lx ly spacing diam
.br
Define a rectangular array of pin-holes with diameter of
.IR diam .
The lower left corner of the rectangle is
.IR coord ,
and the width and height are
.I lx,ly
respectively.
The pins are placed
.I spacing
apart.
If
.I spacing
is of the form
.IR sx / sy ,
the spacings in the
.IR x and y
directions are set independently.
.PP
.B .R
.I coord lx ly type
.br
Define a special rectangular region.
Type 
.B .A
defines a region that will not be used by the
automatic placement algorithm.
.PP
.B .W
.I chip1 pin1 chip2 pin2 net
.br
Define a wire link between
.I pin1
of
.I chip1
and
.I pin2
of
.IR chip2 .
The net name is
.IR net .
.sp 2
A line with any undefined key causes most programs to halt.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR cdm (10.1)
