.TH APNEWS 7 alice
.CT 1 inst_info
.SH NAME
apnews, ap.keys \- present AP wire stories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B apnews
[
.B -f
.I dir
]
[
.B -r
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Apnews
presents news from the AP wire on a cursor-addressed screen.
The top half of the screen contains 20
story slugs (two-word labels).
.I Apnews
responds to these commands:
.TP "\w'c file  'u"
.I n
Print story for slug
.IR n ;
page through it by typing newlines.
.TP
.B m
Present more slugs.
.TP
.B \&.
Return to current slug list.
.TP
.B t
Top.  Return to first list of slugs
.TP
.BI s " keywords"
Present slugs for stories containing these keywords.
.TP
.B y
Present slugs for stories containing words from the last story read.
.TP
.BI c " file"
Copy.  Add story being read to named file or directory.
.TP
.B ?
Print some help.
.PP
To suggest interest,
slugs may be followed by a bracketed number that shows
the average number of pages (up to 5) that readers
have perused.
Option
.B -r
turns this feature off.
.PP
Option
.B -f
directs the attention of
.I apnews
to a specified directory of AP stories, as may be collected by
.FR ap.keys .
.PP
To monitor news automatically, put a file
.F ap.keys
in your home directory.
This file contains instructions marked by
.LR * ,
each followed by one or more search lines.
Instructions specify what to capture:
.TP
.B S
whole story
.PD0
.TP
.B P
first paragraph
.TP
.B H
heading
.PD
.LP
then what to do with it:
.TP
.BI | " command
specifying a command (often mail) to be executed with the
story as standard input
.PD0
.TP
.BI > " file"
.PD
specifying a file or directory to add the story to;
pathnames are relative to your home directory
.PP
If no instruction is present, the default is
.IP
.L *S | mail yourself
.PP
Search lines may contain:
.IP (1)
a sequence of blank-separated words; these words
must occur in this order
.PD0
.IP (2)
a sequence of words separated
by commas; these words must appear in the same sentence
.IP (3)
a sequence of words separated by periods; these words may
occur anywhere in the story, but all must appear
.PD
.PP
Combinations
are allowed, e.g.\&
.L " x . y, z"
specifies
.L y
and
.L z
in the same sentence and
.L x
somewhere in the same story.
The character 
.L !
means not, so that
.L !chocolate chip
means
.L chip
not preceded by
.LR chocolate .
Some suffixes are removed; and
capitals are ignored except when entire words are
capitalized.
Thus
.L ERA
and
.L era
are distinguished, but
.L Waters
and
.L waters
are not.
Special `words' specify story types:
.TP
.B #f
flash
.PD0
.TP
.B #b
bulletin
.TP
.B #u
urgent news
.TP
.B #r
regular news
.TP
.B #d
deferred news
.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
*S > stuff
bell laboratories
FCC . telephone, regulation
*P | mail joe
#b
AM-NewsDigest
.EE
.SH FILES
.F ap.keys
.br
.F /usr/spool/ap/*
.SH BUGS
.I Apnews
can fail to work well in a
.IR mux (9.1)
window, for two reasons.
.br
(1) The window needs a terminal emulator.
Before invoking 
.I apnews,
do 
.L "exec term 5620"
(or
.BR 2621 );
see
.IR term (9.1).
.br
(2) Remote execution needs a transparent connection.
If logged in elsewhere make the connection to the serving machine by doing, for example,
.L "ndcon alice
or
.LR "nrx alice apnews" 
(after downloading an emulator, if 
necessary);
see
.IR dcon (1).
