.TH DICT 7 "bowell, murray"
.CT 1 inst_info
.SH NAME
dict \- look up words in English dictionaries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dict
[
.B \-p
]
[
.I dictionary
[
.I word
]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dict
looks up words in the specified
.I dictionary,
.B webster
by default.
Words are read, one per line from the standard input, and
entries are written on the standard output.
Characters other than letters, digits, and space are ignored.
A single word may be specified in the command.
The options are
.TP
.B \-p
Find all entries of which the specified
.I word
is a prefix.
.TP
.B \-r
Print raw form, including diacriticals, font marks, etc.
Different for each dictionary to which it applies.
.PP
.I Dictionary
is one of
.TF thesaurus
.TP
.B webster
Merriam-Webster Collegiate Dictionary, Seventh Edition,
full text.
No option
.BR -p .
.PD
.TP
.B web7
Same, words only.
.TP
.BR etym [ ology ]
Inverted index to
.L webster
by root words.
.TP
.B web2
Merriam-Webster New International Dictionary, Second Edition,
unabridged, words only.
.TP
.B oed
The Oxford New English Dictionary, or OED,
full text.
No option
.BR -p .
.TP
.B oxford
The Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary of Contemporary English,
full text.
No 
.BR -p .
.TP
.B slang
New Dictionary of American Slang (Harper).
Field identifiers: 
.B me
main entry (perhaps flagged
.BR @ ),
.B nu
sense number (also given as
.BI * n *\fR),
.B pr
pronunciation,
.B ps
part of speech,
.B vr
variations
.B la
provenance,
.B df
definition,
.B dx
definition by example,
.B ex
example,
.B ed
editorial note,
.B et
etymology,
.B xr
cross reference,
.B xx
indirect address,
.B sq
sequence number in original text.
.TP
.B names
The Oxford Dictionary of British surnames.
.TP
.B thesaurus
Collins Thesaurus.
.TP
.B thesaurusa
Same, augmented with complete backreferences among words.
.TP
.B places
USGS Gazetteer of populated places in US and possessions, with standard county
code, latitude, longitude, year of listing, altitude (feet),
1980 population, topo sheet code.
For full name search, use thus: 
.BR "dict places 'new york, ny'" ;
without state, use prefix search:
.BR "dict -p places 'new york'" .
.TP
towns
A shorter gazetteer (PICADAD) of US populated places with latitude,
longitude, zip code, and population population class
(0:0-1000, 1:1000-2500, 2:2500-5000,
3:5000-10,000, 4:10,000-25,000, 5:25,000-50,000, 6:50,000-100,000,
7:100,000-250,000, 8:250,000-500,000, 9:500,000+), and something else.
.TP
.B spell
Word list of
.IR spell (1).
.TP
.BR acro [ nym ]
17000 AT&T acronyms
.TP
anything else
Print list of available dictionaries.
.PP
The dictionaries are copyrighted and must not
be copied without permission, except for
.LR web2 ,
.LR spell ,
and
.LR acro .
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/spool/town/ustowns*
.TP
.F /usr/dict/*
.RB (  /n/bowell )
.TP
.F /usr/dict/words
.B spell
or
.BR web7 ,
depending on machine
.TP
.F /usr/dict/oed
.RB ( /n/kwee )
.TP
.F /usr/lib/dict/*
.TP
.F /usr1/maps/usplaces
.RB (  /n/bowell )
.TP
.F /usr/spool/town/ustowns*
.RB (  /n/alice )
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR look (1),
.IR town (7)
.SH BUGS
In
.BR webster ,
.BR web7 ,
and
.BR pron ,
diacriticals are done right \-
by overstrikes \- which means they disappear on most screen terminals.
.br
In 
.BR towns ,
all data are lower case;
missing zip codes look like normal codes ending in `000'.
Latitude and longitude denote the center of population of the
containing political entity; unincorporated places are spotted
at the county center.
.br
In
.BR slang ,
some entries contain extra trash; option
.B -p
helps overcome the trouble.
