.TH MAP 7 bowell
.CT 1 inst_info
.SH NAME
map \- draw maps on various projections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B map
.I projection
[
.I param ...
]
[
.I option ...
]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Map
prepares on the standard output a
map suitable for display by any
plotting filter described in
.IR  plot (1).
A menu of projections is produced in response to an unknown
.IR projection .
For the meanings of
.I params
pertinent to particular projections
see
.IR  map (3).
.PP
The default data for
.I map
are world shorelines.
Option
.B -f
accesses more detailed data
classified by feature.
.TP
.BR -f " [ \fIfeature\fR ... ]"
Known
features are ranked 1 to 4 from major to minor,
with a higher-numbered rank including all lower-numbered ones.
A missing rank is taken to be 1.
Features are
.RS
.TF country[1-3]
.TP
.BR shore [ 1 - 4 ] 
seacoasts, lakes, and islands; option
.B -f
always shows
.B shore1
.TP
.BR ilake [ 1 - 2 ] 
intermittent lakes
.TP
.BR river [ 1 - 4 ] 
rivers
.TP
.BR iriver [ 1 - 3 ] 
intermittent rivers
.TP
.BR canal [ 1 - 3 ] 
.BR 3 =irrigation
canals
.TP
.BR glacier
.TP
.BR iceshelf [ 12 ] 
.TP
.BR reef
.TP
.BR saltpan [ 12 ] 
.TP
.BR country [ 1 - 3 ] 
.BR 2 =disputed
boundaries,
.BR 3 =indefinite
boundaries
.TP
.BR state
states and provinces (US and Canada only)
.PD
.RE
.PP
In the following list of other options
all coordinates are in degrees, with north latitude
and west longitude counted as positive.
.TP 0
.BI -l " S N E W"
the southern and northern latitude
and the eastern and western longitude limits of the desired map.
Missing arguments are filled out from the list
\-90, 90, \-180, 180,
or lesser limits suitable to the
projection at hand.
.TP
.BI -k " S N E W
Set the scale as if for a map with limits
.B -l
.I "S N E W".
Do not consider any
.B -l
or
.B -w
option in setting scale.
.TP
.BI -o " lat lon rot"
Orient the map in a nonstandard position.
Imagine a transparent gridded sphere around the globe.
First turn the overlay about the North Pole
so that the Prime Meridian (longitude 0)
of the overlay coincides with meridian
.I lon
on the globe.
Then tilt the North Pole of the
overlay along its Prime Meridian to latitude
.I lat
on the globe.
Finally again turn the
overlay about its `North Pole' so
that its Prime Meridian coincides with the previous position
of meridian
.IR rot .
Project the desired map in
the standard form appropriate to the overlay, but presenting
information from the underlying globe.
Missing arguments are filled out from the list
90, 0, 0.
Default orientation is 90, 0,
.I m,
where
.I m
is the middle of the longitude range.
.TP
.BI -w " S N E W"
Window the map by the specified latitudes
and longitudes in the tilted, rotated coordinate system.
Missing arguments are filled out from the list \-90, 90, \-180, 180.
(It is wise to give an encompassing
.B -l
option with
.BR -w .
Otherwise for small windows computing time
varies inversely with area!)
.TP
.BI -d " n"
Alter the density of points
by plotting only every
.IR n th
one.
.TP
.B  -r
Reverse left and right side of map,
for star charts and inside-out views.
.ns
.TP
.B  -s
Save the screen, don't erase before drawing.
Output made under
.B -s
must be appended to output of another
.I map
command.
.TP
.BI -g " dlat dlon res"
Grid spacings are
.I dlat,
.I dlon
(10 degrees by default).
Zero spacing means no grid.
Missing
.I dlat
is taken to be zero.
Missing
.I dlon
is taken the same as
.IR dlat .
Grid lines are drawn to a resolution of
.I res
(2 degrees or less by default).
.TP
.BI -p " lat lon extent"
Position the point
.I lat, lon
at the center of the plotting area, and
scale so that the height (and width) of the
nominal plotting area is
.I extent
times the size of one degree of latitude
at the center.
For example, a standard 
Mercator wall map comes out as if positioned
and scaled
with
.BR "-p 0 0 360" .
An
.I extent
overrides option
.BR -k .
.TP
.BI -c " x y"
After all other positioning and scaling operations
have been performed, move the center of the map
to position
.I x, y,
where the nominal plotting area is
.RI \-1 \(<= x \(<= 1,
.RI \-1 \(<= y \(<= 1.
.TP
.BR -m " [ \fIfile\fP ... ]"
Use
map data from named files instead of the defaults.
If no files are named, omit map data.
Names that are not the pathname of real files are looked up in
a standard directory, which contains, in addition to the
data for
.BR -f ,
.RS
.LP
.TF counties
.TP
.B world
World Data Bank I from CIA (the default map)
.TP
.B states
US map from Census Bureau
.TP
.B counties
US map from Census Bureau
.PD
.RE
.IP
The environment variables
.B MAP 
and
.B MAPDIR 
change the default
map and default directory.
.TP
.BI -b " \fR[\fPlat lon\fR... ]"
Suppress the drawing of the normal boundary
(defined by option
.BR -l ).
Coordinates, if present, define the vertices of a
drawn polygon to which the map is clipped.
If only two vertices are given, they are taken to be the
diagonal of a rectangle.
.TP
.BI -t " file ..."
The following arguments name ASCII files that
contain lists of points,
given as latitude-longitude pairs in degrees.
If the first file is named 
.LR - ,
the standard input is taken instead.
The points of each list are plotted as connected `tracks'.
.IP
Points in a track file may be followed by label strings.
A label breaks the track.
A label may be prefixed by
\f5"\fR,
.LR : ,
or 
.L !
and is terminated by a newline.
An unprefixed string or a string prefixed with
.L
"
is displayed at the designated point.
The first word of a
.L :
or
.L !
string names a special symbol (see option
.BR -y ).
An optional numerical second word is a scale factor
for the size of the symbol, 1 by default.
A
.L :
symbol is aligned with its top to the north; a
.L !
symbol is aligned vertically on the page.
.TP
.BI -u " file ..."
Same as
.BR -t ,
except the tracks are
unbroken lines.
.RB ( -t
tracks appear as dot-dashed lines if the plotting filter supports them.)
.TP
.BI -y " file
The
.I file
contains 
.IR plot (5)-style
data for
.L :
or
.L !
labels in
.B -t
or
.B -u
files.
Each symbol is defined by a comment
.BI : name
then a sequence of
.L m
and
.L v
commands.
Coordinates (0,0) fall on the plotting point.
Default scaling is as if the nominal plotting range were
.LR "ra -1 -1 1 1" ;
.L ra
commands in
.I file
change the scaling.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L
map perspective 1.025 -o 40.75 74
A view looking straight down on New York from 100 miles
(0.025 earth radius) up.
The job can be done faster by limiting the map so as not to `plot'
the invisible part of the world:
.L
map perspective 1.025 -o 40.75 74 -l 20 60 30 100
.TP
.L
map mercator -o 49.25 -106 180
An `equatorial' map of the earth
centered on New York.
The pole of the map is placed 90 degrees away (40.75+49.25=90)
on the
other side of the earth.
A 180-degree twist around the pole of the map arranges that the
`Prime Meridian' of the map runs from the pole of the
map over the North Pole to New York
instead of down the back side of the earth.
The same effect can be had from
.L
map mercator -o 130.75 74
.TP
.L
map albers 28 45 -l 20 50 60 130 -m states
A customary curved-latitude map of the United States.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr1/maps/[1-4]??
.TP
.F /usr1/maps/[1-4]??
World Data Bank II
.TP
.F /usr1/maps/world
World Data Bank I
.TP
.F /usr1/maps/states
DIMECO
.TP
.F /usr1/maps/counties
DIMECO
.TP
.F /usr/lib/map
the program
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR map (5), 
.IR proj (3), 
.IR plot (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
`Map seems to be empty'\(emthe intersection of the
limits and the window seems to be null;
for very local maps,
the grid resolution
.I res
may have to be refined.
.SH BUGS
Border lines are drawn only along edges arising from
.B -b
or 
.B -l
options (including default
.BR -l ).
No borders appear along edges arising from
.B -w
or from visibility limits.
.br
Border lines arising from
.B -b
cannot be suppressed.
.br
Segments that cross a border are dropped, not clipped.
.br
Because `close' messages stop some plotting filters,
.I map
puts no close message on the standard output.
This prevents such filters from stopping early
when an overlay follows with option
.BR -s .
However such filters may not like to see an end of file;
if funny things happen at the end of a map, tack on a
close message (see
.IR plot (5)).
