.TH PAPERS 7 bowell
.CT 1 inst_info
.SH NAME
findauthor, papers, makepaper \- consult database of locally authored papers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B findauthor
.IB person 
.PP
.B papers
.I person
.PP
.B makepaper
.I papername
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Findauthor
produces a shell
.I cd
command to set the current directory to the place where papers by
.I person
(a login name or a last name) are stored.
.PP
.I Papers
lists the names and titles of the papers stored under
.I person.
.PP
.I Makepaper
produces
.IR troff (1)
output for
.I papername.
.PP
The database is stored in file system
.FR /n/bowell/pap .
File
.F /n/bowell/pap/Titles
lists titles, authors and installation date
of papers in the database.
Many papers have been preprocessed for quick presentation
of figures and equations with
.IR reader (9.7).
These papers are stored in directories named
.IB papername .d\fR;
other papers are stored as
single files.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B `findauthor aho`
Change to directory of Aho's works.
.SH FILES
.TF /n/bowell/pap/Titles
.TP
.F /n/bowell/pap/Titles
titles, authors and installation dates
.TP
.F /n/bowell/pap/*org
membership list
.TP
.BI /n/bowell/pap/ center / department / author\f5/\fIpapername\fR[\f5.d\fR]
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR reader (9.7), 
.IR docsubmit (1), 
.IR troff (1), 
.IR doctype (1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
.I Makepaper
depends on
.IR doctype (1)
to determine what preprocessors to run.
.br
.I Makepaper
does not know the author's original arguments to
.IR refer ,
so papers are produced with
.IR refer 's
default arguments.
.br
.I Makepaper
does not work with 
.RI non- troff
formatters such as
.IR tex (1)
or
.IR monk (1).
