.TH POLY 7 bowell
.CT 1 inst_info
.SH NAME
polypic, polypr \- database of polyhedra
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B polypic
[
.B -phfis
]
.I solid ...
.br
.B polypr
[
.B -cfhnpsi\f2file
]
.I solid ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Polypic
outputs a picture of the planar nets for the specified solids in
.IR plot (5)
format.
The options are:
.TP
.B  -f
Print the face numbers.
.TP
.B  -h
Print the hinge numbers.
.TP
.BI -i file
Use
.I file
instead of the normal database.
.TP
.B  -s
Produce an orthogonal view of the 3D solid rather than the net.
.TP
.B  -p
Produce
.IR pic (1)
output.
.PP
.I Polypr
gives more general access to the data.
By default, all the data is output.
If no solid is specified, all the solids in the database are output.
The options are:
.TP
.B -n
Print only the database index number and the name.
.TP
.B -h
Print only a header line with name and number of faces and hinges.
.TP
.B -f
Print only the data for the flat net.
.TP
.B -s
Print only the data for the 3D solid.
.TP
.BI -i file
Use
.I file
instead of the normal database.
.TP
.B -c
Produce output for Tom Duff's polygon renderer (implies
.BR -s ).
.TP
.B -p
Produce useful parameters for a perspective view; implies
.BR -c .
.PP
For both
.I polypic
and
.IR polypr ,
the solid may be specified by either its index number
or by any prefix of the name.
Ambiguities are resolved by database order.
.SH FILES
.F /usr/include/poly.h
.br
.F /usr/lib/polyhedra 
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR plot (1),
.IR poly (5)
.br
A. G. Hume,
`Exact Descriptions of Regular and Semi-regular Polyhedra and Their Duals'
.I Computing Science Technical Report 130,
AT&T Bell Laboratories, November, 1986
.SH BUGS
Not all the polyhedra have valid 3D data.
.br
Option
.B -s
doesn't work yet.
