.TH TTY 4
.CT 2 comm_term
.SH NAME
tty \- serial line interface drivers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/ttyio.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
The files
.L /dev/tty*
refer to serial line devices
such as the DZ11.
They are normally used in conjunction
with the terminal line discipline,
.IR ttyld (4).
.PP
Certain device-related parameters,
such as parity and line speed,
may be set by
.IR ioctl (2)
calls:
.TF TIOCGDEV
.TP
.B TIOCGDEV
The argument points to a
.B ttydevb
structure to be filled in with current settings.
.TP
.B TIOCSDEV
The argument points to a
.B ttydevb
structure from which the parameters are set.
.PD
.PP
The
.B ttydevb
structure, as defined in
.BR <sys/ttyio.h> ,
is
.PP
.EX
.ta \w'struct 'u +\w'ttydevb 'u +\w'ispeed; 'u
struct	ttydevb	{
	char	ispeed;	/* input speed */
	char	ospeed;	/* output speed */
	short	flags;	/* mode flags */
};
.EE
.PP
The speeds are encoded as follows.
Impossible speeds are ignored.
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'B9600   'u +5n
\f5B0	0\fP	(hang up device)
\f5B50	1\fP	50 baud
\f5B75	2\fP	75 baud
\f5B110	3\fP	110 baud
\f5B134	4\fP	134.5 baud
\f5B150	5\fP	150 baud
\f5B200	6\fP	200 baud
\f5B300	7\fP	300 baud
\f5B600	8\fP	600 baud
\f5B1200	9\fP	1200 baud
\f5B1800	10\fP	1800 baud
\f5B2400	11\fP	2400 baud
\f5B4800	12\fP	4800 baud
\f5B9600	13\fP	9600 baud
\f5EXTA	14\fP	External A
\f5EXTB	15\fP	External B
.fi
.DT
.PP
The flags are:
.PP
.nf
\f5F8BIT	040\fP	eight-bit input and output
\f5ODDP	0100\fP	odd parity
\f5EVENP	0200\fP	even parity
.fi
.PP
If
.L F8BIT
is set,
all eight bits of each output character
are transmitted
without imposing parity,
and all eight bits of each input character
are passed back without
parity checking or stripping.
Otherwise,
.L EVENP
requests that even parity be accepted and generated,
.L ODDP
odd parity.
If both
.L EVENP
and
.L ODDP
are set,
or if both are clear,
even parity is generated
and any parity is accepted.
.PP
For DZ11 lines,
1200 baud
and 8-bit mode are the defaults.
The transmit and receive speeds are the same;
.B ospeed
is ignored.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ioctl (2),
.IR ttyld (4)
.SH BUGS
Every hardware interface doesn't support every operation.
