.TH BLITBLT 9.1
.CT 1 comm_other
.SH NAME
blitblt, menudrop \- save or print a screen image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blitblt
[
.B -p
.I command
]
.PP
.B menudrop
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Blitblt
copies a selected area of a
.IR mux (9.1)
screen into a file
or to a program.
It is menu-driven off button 3 to select a
rectangular area and to treat it by flipping the
border from wide to narrow and back, inverting video,
saving the selcted area in a file, or sending 
it to a program, usually for printing.
Details of certain menu items:
.nr xx \w'\f5sweep rectangle\f1'u+2n/1n
.TP \n(xx
.TP
.B choose layer
.br
.ns
.TP
.B layer rectangle
One gets the bits of a layer, obscured or not; the other
gets screen bits including superposed layers.
.TP
.B run/halt
Restart or stop the terminal
process in the selected layer.
.TP
.B write file
Write the selected area into a file or pipe in
.IR bitfile (9.5)
format.
The filename is typed 
at the bottom of the
.I blitblt
layer.
A bare newline repeats the previous name.
If the first character is
.LR | ,
the remainder of
the line is taken as a shell command to pipe into.
(A likely command is
.BR |lp 
for hard copy.)
.TP
.BI | " command"
Pipe the selected area to the
.I command
specified by the
.B -p
option.
.PP
.I Menudrop
may be used with
.IR blitblt
to make images containing `menus'
as fraudulent overlaid layers.
The program is menu-driven off button 3:
.nr xx \w'\f5drop menu\f1'u+2n/1n
.TP \n(xx
.B drop menu
A
.RI non- mux
menu selected in another window will be drawn 
and will remain on screen after
the button selecting the menu has been released.
Subsequent menu selections
will delete the previous menu layer and create a new one.
Once such a menu-bearing layer is present, the
.I menudrop
menu changes to allow cursor placement, highlighting of menu items, 
lifting of the displayed menu, etc.
The functionality of the program using the menu is not affected.
.TP
.B mux menus
The next click of button 1 or 2 will drop the corresponding (non-functional)
.I mux
menu at the mouse position.
.TP
.B exit
.I Menudrop
will exit in a clean manner.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L blitlblt -p lp
.br
.ns
.TP
.L
blitblt -p "lp -p bpost"
Arrange for piping output to a laser printer: a good
way, and a surefire way.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR mbits (6),
.IR bitfile (9.5)
.SH BUGS
Animated layers result in broken images.
Use the
.B halt
function.
.br
If a pipe request fails, the
.I blitblt
layer becomes unusable.
.br
The default 
.I command
for
.L "write file"
is obsolete.
.br
Deleting a
.I menudrop
layer, rather than exiting through the menu, can crash the terminal.
.br
Programs that use private menu packages are unaffected by
.IR menudrop ;
using a debugger to stop a program in midmenu may
get the same effect.
