.TH BRUSH 9.1
.CT 1 games
.SH NAME
brush \- painting program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B brush
[
.B -f
.I fontdir
]
[
.B -p
.I picdir
]
[
.B -t
.I texdir
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Brush
paints images under mouse control.
Options are
.TP
.B -f
font directory 
.RF ( /usr/jerq/font
by default)
.PD 0
.TP
.B -p
the directory in which to keep pictures
(current directory by default)
.TP
.B -t
texture directory, where brushes and shades live
(current directory by default)
.PD
.PP
In general, button 1 draws, button 2 erases;
the cursor assumes the shape of the current brush.
Button 3 is used to select options, sweep out areas,
or cancel operations in progress.
.PP
The borders on either side of the drawing area contain menus of
available shades and brushes.
The current brush and shade are outlined by boxes.
To choose another, click button 3 at it.
.PP
The top border contains
a help area,
drawing options,
and certain commands.
Selections are made by pointing with button 3.
Some cycle through options; others bring up menus.
The items are:
.TP
help
Icons in three boxes indicate what buttons
1, 2, and 3 will do at any given time:
.PD
.IP
.nf
.ta \w'\f5square with arrow  'u
paintbrush	draw with this button
pencil eraser	erase with this button
menu with cursor	menu on this button
thumbs down	cancel or finish an operation
pointing hand	indicate a point
square with arrow	sweep a rectangle
circle with arrow	sweep a circle
skull	exit the program
.fi
.DT
.TP
smooth
Smooth the contours of magnified images.
.TP
align
Force circles, discs, text, and other images
to align with texture cell boundaries.
.TP
.B image
Manipulate the
`current image',
(box, ellipse, etc.)\&
selected from the drawing menu described below.
Button 3 makes the image disappear, reserved for future use.
The image menu contains:
.RS
.TF magnify
.TP
.B same
Bring back the current image.
.TP
.B magnify
Sweep a rectangle indicating the
size of the magnified image.
The numbers that appear are horizontal and vertical
magnification factors.
.TP
.B shrink
Shrink to 1/4 size.
Indicate whether image is shaded or black & white.
.TP
.B flip
Reflect left-right or top-bottom.
.TP
.B rotate
Rotate counterclockwise or clockwise 90 degrees.
.TP
.B slant
Drag the current image rectangle into a parallelogram.
.TP
.B outline
Replace the current image with its outline.
.TP
.B shadow
Draw a `shadow' behind the current image.
.TP
.B shadow
Draw a `shadow' behind the current image.
.TP
.B new
Make a new image by copying a rectangular portion of the screen.
.RE
.PD
.TF Smooth
.IP 
To move an image on the screen, select
.B new
from the
.B image
menu.
Sweep the area to be moved, click button 2 to erase it,
move it, and click button 1 to draw it.
.PD 
.TP
drawing style
Select continuous curves, dotted lines,
disconnected dots, or an `airbrush' effect when painting.
.PD 0
.TP
constrain
Select freehand (wavy-line icon) or 
horizontal-vertical drawing (angular icon).
.PD
.TP
reflect
Draw symmetric figures.
The icon shows the symmetries:
.B x=0
(left-right), 
.B y=0
(top-bottom),
or
.BR both ,
relative to the center of the screen.
.PD0
.TP
draw mode
Set the drawing mode to one of
.BR or ,
.BR xor ,
.BR store ,
.BR and ,
.B copy
(preserves interior whitespace of images).
.TP
text style
Set the text style to one of
.BR normal ,
.BR outline ,
.BR bold ,
.BR shadow ,
.BR italic .
.TP
font name
Set the text font.
Menu selection
.B new
prompts for a font name
from the font directory.
.PD
.TP
.B i/o
Interact with host machine.
Menu items are:
.PD 0
.RS
.TF recall
.TP
.B save
Copy screen, brushes, or shades to a file.
Prompts for a file name, starting with the default picture
directory (if any).
Backspace past this if you wish to save elsewhere;
hit return to quit.
Next sweep a rectangle to be saved.
Bitmaps are saved in
.IR bitfile (9.5)
format.
.TP
.B recall
Prompts for a file name.
The recalled picture becomes the
current image.
.TP
.B exit
Leave the program.
Confirm by
two clicks on button 3.
.PD
.RE
.PP
The menu on button 3 in the drawing area contains these selections:
.TF Smooth
.TP
.B lines
Indicate first point, then position cursor with rubber band line
for subsequent lines.
Button 1 draws, button 2 erases.
.PD
.TP
.B curves
Indicate first control point, then position cursor with rubber band line
for subsequent control points.
A curve (spline) will be drawn (erased) using these control points,
depending on whether the last button hit is button 1 (draw), or button 2 (erase).
.PD 0
.TP
.B box
.TP
.B ellipse
.TP
.B disc
(A disc is a filled ellipse).
Sweep a rectangle;
numbers show the dimensions.
A single dot marks the center of an ellipse.
The image becomes the current image;
use buttons 1 and 2 to draw or erase with it.
.PD
.TP
.B string
Type in text.
The string becomes the current image.
.TP
.B texture
Sweep a rectangle.
The current image
becomes a rectangle of this size textured with current shade.
.TP
.B fill
Sweep a rectangle, then indicate interior seed points
using button 1, or button 3 to quit.
Enclosed regions will be filled with current shade.
Any button cancels the fill.
.PD 0
.TP
.B clear
.TP
.B invert
Sweep a rectangle to be cleared or color-inverted.
.PD
.TP
.B fade
Sweep a rectangle.
Holding button 2 will fade this area, as if
erasing in
spray paint mode with
a random pattern instead of a shade.
.PD 0
.TP
.B new brush
.TP
.B new shade
Menu select whether to edit or snarf from screen (with button 3).
If editing,
the current brush (shade) will appear magnified in upper left corner.
Edit with buttons 1 and 2, quit with 3.
Several `spare' brushes appear at the bottom of the brush menu.
.PD
.TP
.B details
Select an area with box cursor to be magnified for detailed editing.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR paint (9.1),
.IR mbits (6),
.IR bitfile (9.5)
.SH BUGS
The smoothing operation fully smooths only
for magnification factors that are powers of two.
.br
Bitmaps moved off the top or bottom
of the physical screen can pick up noise.
.br
.B Copy
mode generates a mask the first time a given image is moved.
This can take a while for large images.
Be patient.
