.TH FACE 9.7
.CT 1 inst_info graphics
.SH NAME
face, mugs \- show faces, make face icons from pictures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B face
.IB machine ! user
.I file ...
.PP
.B mugs
[
.B -a
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Face
displays the 48\(mu48 bit icons specified by its arguments.
If an argument contains an exclamation mark,
it is assumed to be a machine and user pair
and is looked up in the face file system,
.IR faced (9.5);
otherwise it is taken to be a file name.
If the file does not exist and contains no slashes,
it is looked up in
.FR /n/face/48x48x1 .
.PP
When
.IR face 's
layer is full, it waits for a character to be typed before continuing.
.PP
.I Mugs
interactively converts grey-scale images in
the form of
.IR picfile (5)
into 48\(mu48 icons for display by
.I face
and
.IR vismon (9.1).
It prompts for the name of a picture file,
displaying a large approximation to the original picture
and a matrix of 48\(mu48 icons of varying contrast and
brightness.  Button 1 selects one of the 48\(mu48's.
Button 3 presents a menu with entries:
.TP
.B window
Select a square window in the large picture using button 3.
Touch down at
the top and center of the square and slide around to adjust its size.
Appropriately cropped 48\(mu48's will be displayed.
.TP
.B in
Zoom in on a smaller part of contrast-brightness space, displaying
an array of 48\(mu48's that look more-or-less like the selected one.
Repeated
.BR in s
will zoom in farther.
.TP
.B out
Opposite of
.BR in .
.TP
.B save
Type in the name of a file in which to save the currently selected 48\(mu48.
.TP
.B read
Type in the name of a picture file containing the next face to process.
.TP
.B exit
Confirm with button 3.
.PP
Option
.B -a
indicates that picture files have non-square pixels with
aspect ratio 1.25, as produced by the ITI frame-grabber attached
to kwee.
Normally pixels are assumed to be square.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L
face /n/face/coma/*/48x48x1
All the users of coma.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR faced (9.5), 
.IR icon (9.1), 
.IR vismon (9.1),
.IR imscan (1),
.IR picfile (5)
