.TH FLICKS 9.1
.CT 1 comm_term
.SH NAME
flicks, fflicks, preflicks, 2mux \- movie graphics for 5620
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flicks
[
.B -fmte
]
.I file ...
.PP
.B preflicks 
[
.B -fmtvloics
]
.I file ...
.PP
.B fflicks
[
.I flickfile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Flicks
interprets each of the
.I files
as a grey-scale frame in the form of
.IR picfile (5)
(or a square raster of unsigned bytes),
dithers them, and displays them on the terminal.
Once the frames have been downloaded the frames can be played
as a movie, controlled by a menu on button 3.
Most menu selections are self-explanatory.
.I Step
shows individual frames,
stepping forward with button 1, or backward with button 2.
Button 3 brings back the main menu.
.PP
The size of a frame is an option:
.TP
.B -f
full size: same size as the input (typically 512\(mu512)
.TP
.B -m
medium size: half the input size (typically 256\(mu256) default
.TP
.B -t
tiny size: quarter of the input size (typically 128\(mu128)
.PD
.PP
If only one image is processed, full size is the default. For more
than 11 pictures, tiny size is default. Anything in between is
medium size by default.
.PP
The frames are rendered with dithering by default,
and with error propagation if
.B -e
is specified.
.PP
.I Fflicks
downloads frames
that have been preprocessed by
.IR preflicks
into a
.I flickfile.
.I Fflicks
downloads much faster than
.I flicks.
.PP
The options for
.I preflicks
include
.BR -f ,
.BR -m ,
and
.B -t
as for
.I flicks,
plus
.TP
.B -l
Use logarithmic dither.
.TP
.B -v
Chatter on standard error.
.TP
.B -o
Write the flickfile onto standard output;
by default output goes into file
.BR _movie .
.TP
.B -i
Print a summary of the contents of
the flickfiles.
.TP
.B -c
Catenate named flickfiles onto the standard output.
.TP
.BI -s X , Y
the (one only) input file is assumed to be a sequence of
.IR X\(muY -byte
frames.
If
.I X
and
.I Y
may be omitted, 512\(mu512 is assumed.
.PP
.I Fflicks
display is controlled by a menu on button 3.
The selection `movie rate' tries to run the display at 24 frames/sec.
.PP
Frames prepared with
.I preflicks
are compacted.
Thus
.I fflicks
can play a longer sequence than
.IR flicks :
up to roughly 120 medium sized or 480 tiny frames (20 seconds of movie).
Still longer sequences (about twice as long) can be downloaded if
.I fflicks
is run within
.I 2mux
instead of
.I mux.
The price of compaction is speed.
Menu selections are available
for uncompacting some (even- or odd-numbered) frames.
.SH FILES
.B _movie
.br
.B /usr/jerq/lib/2term
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pico (1),
.IR picfile (5),
.IR rebecca (9.1),
.IR flickfile (9.5),
.IR movie (9.1)
