.TH PADS 9.5
.CT 2 comm_term
.SH NAME
pads \- user interface package
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pads
is a mouse-based interface for browsing a network
of windows.
.PP
Button 1 points.
Pointing at a window makes it current, with a heavy border;
pointing at a line of text makes it current, inverts its video,
and scrolls it to the middle of the window.
A scroll bar at the left of each window shows how
much of the text of a window is visible;
pointing into the scroll region controls what text is displayed.
.PP
Button 2 has a menu of operations that apply to the current line.
Operations above the 
.B ~~~~~ 
separator are specific to each line;
operations below the separator are generic line operations:
.TF truncate
.TP
.B cut
Remove the line.
.PD
.TP
.B sever
Remove the line and all lines above it.
.TP
.B fold
If lines pass the right margin, continue them on following lines.
.TP
.B truncate
Truncate lines at the right margin.
.LP
Button 3 has a menu of window-level operations, and is in three parts.
Below the lower separator is a list of windows;
selecting one makes it current.
They appear in front-to-back screen order, current at the top.
Operations above the upper separator are specific to each window;
operations between the separators are generic window operations:
.TF truncate
.TP
.B reshape
.TP
.B move
.TP
.B close
Like
.BR reshape ,
.BR move ,
and
.B delete
in 
.IR mux (9.1).
.PD
.TP
.B fold 
.br
.ns
.TP
.B truncate
apply to all lines in the window.
.PP
Keyboard characters accumulate at the bottom of the layer.
If the current line accepts input, it flashes with each keystroke;
otherwise, if the current window accepts input, its border flashes.
Carriage return is ignored until a line or window
accepts the text, whereupon
the input line is sent to the line or window.
The ESC key substitutes the
.IR mux (9.1)
global snarf buffer.
.PP
If the first character of a line from the keyboard is
.B <
or
.B >
the remainder of the line is interpreted as a shell command.
For
.BR < ,
each line of the command's standard output is sent to the line or window,
as though it had come from the keyboard.
For
.BR > ,
the line or lines of the window become the command's standard input.
Each line or window that accepts keyboard input produces
some help in response to
.BR ? .
Special cursor icons occasionally appear:
.TP
arrow-dot-dot-dot
The host is completing an operation; the terminal is ready
asynchronously.
.TP
exclamation mark
Confirm a dangerous menu selection by pressing that menu's button again.
.SH SEE ALSO
T. A. Cargill,
.I Pads Programming Guide
