.TH PSI 9.1
.CT 1 writing_output
.SH NAME
psi \- postscript interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B psi
[
.I option ...
] [
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Psi
reads Postscript input from
.I file
or from standard input
and simulates the resulting pages in a
.IR mux (9.1)
layer.
The program remains in the layer at exit; further invocations of
.I psi
in that layer avoid download time.
.PP
The options are
.TP
.BI -p n
Display page
.I n.
.TP
.B -r
Display the image at full scale, with the bottom left
corner positioned at the bottom left corner of the window.
(By default, the image is scaled to fit the window, maintaining
the aspect ratio of a printer.)
.HP
.B -a
.I x y
.br
Display the image at full scale with position
.I x,y
of the image placed at the bottom left corner of the window.
.PP
.I Psi
works on either a Teletype 5620 or a Teletype 630
as determined by the environment variable
.BR TERM .
.PP
Fonts are implemented with size-24 bitmap fonts.
Those available are
Symbol, Times-Roman, Times-Italic, Times-Bold, Helvetica,
Helvetica-Oblique, Helvetica-Bold.
.PP
When the `cherries' icon is displayed, use mouse button 3
to move forward
.RB ( more )
or quit 
.RB ( done ).
Button 2 exits the program completely.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L
troff -ms memo | lp -dstdout -H | psi
.br
.ns
.TP
.L
troff -ms memo | dpost | psi
Two equivalent ways to format a memo, convert it to PostScript,
and display it.
.SH FILES
.TF psi.err
.TP
.F psi.err
error messages
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR lp (1),
.IR postscript (8),
.IR proof (9.1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error comments are placed on file
.FR psi.err .
.PP
Symbols that lack bitmaps are replaced by `?'
and an error is reported.
.SH BUGS
A psi layer imitates
.LR "term 33" ,
not
.IR mux .
Among other difficulties, it will not be reusable if downloaded
across the network.
.br
Unimplemented PostScript features are rotated images or imagemasks,
half tone screens, multiple path clipping.
.br
The charpath operator does nothing since the characters are implemented
as bitmaps.
