.TH REBECCA 9.1
.CT 1 editor graphics
.SH NAME
rebecca \- graphics touch-up editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rebecca
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rebecca
is an interactive retouching tool for digitized grey-scale images.
The 
.I file
must be a headerless 512\(mu512 black-and-white digitized image.
Example (read only) files are
in directory 
.FR /n/kwee/t0/face/512x512x8 .
.LP
`Floating instruments' for editing
can be dragged with button 2 to different locations.
.LP
.I Resolution.
The tick mark on the long bar
can be moved up or down with button 1.
Printed
to the right of the bar is the current resolution\(em
a power of 2 representing the number
of file pixels across the screen image.
.LP
.I Grid.
Click button 1 at the circular button to toggle the grid.
Turning on the grid is useful sometimes to see how
fast a screen update is proceeding: it eats away the grid.
.LP
.I Write.
Write the file on the host by clicking button 1 at the box labeled
.LR write .
The write box has a
.L *
if a change was made to
the file since it was last written.
.LP
.I Runlength encoding.
Clicking button 1 at this box toggles the mode of data transmission
between host and terminal.
.LP
.I Reopen.
This instrument cancels any changes made to the file
since the last time it was written.
.LP
.I Move/Pan.
Click button 1 at one of the 5 areas of the diamond.
The middle resets the display to a
full size picture.
Left, right, up, or down will move (pan) 1/4 screen in the
corresponding direction
(useful only on zoomed pictures).
.LP
.I Zoom/Unzoom.
Click button 1 at
.L Z
(zoom) or
.L U
(unzoom).
.L Z
prompts with a square box to be positioned on the area
of the picture to be inspected at full resolution.
If you click button 1 before you confirm, the sides
of the box are halved.
Clicking button 2 doubles them.
Any combination of two buttons cancels the zoom;
button 3 confirms it.
.LP
.I Paint.
Click button 1 at the box labeled
.LR "+ = -" .
Painting with
.L +
adds grey values to pixels;
.L =
assigns values;
.L "-"
subtracts values.
Click button 1 at a pixel location to apply the paint.
Click button 3 to sweep a rectangle to paint all pixels within it.
Pick a paint value (default is white) by
clicking button 2 at the grey scale at the bottom
or at any pixel in the image.
Click button 2 at the paint box to cancel the paint mode.
.LP
.I Smear.
Pointing at a pixel with both buttons
1 and 2 down averages it with its
8 neighbors (most useful when zoomed in to pixel level).
Typical usage: apply some white or black paint with the paint box,
then smear it.
.LP
.I Probe.
Click button 1 at the probe box
.LR P: .
Point at a pixel in the image.
The
.I x-y
coordinates and the greyscale value of the pixel will be printed.
.LP
.I Contrast.
Move the ends of the line under the
grey scale bar to expand or compress the grey scale.
.LP
.I Rubber Sheet.
The box named 
.L sheet
prompts for a rectangle.
Sweep out the rectangle over an
area you want to manipulate, then reposition the corners
by dragging them to new locations with button 1.
Confirm the selection with button 3.
Other instruments
are usable while the update proceeds. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pico (1),
.IR flicks (9.1),
.IR picfile (5),
.IR flickfile (9.5)
