.TH THINKBLT 9.1
.CT 1 comm_dev
.SH NAME
thinkblt, think \- print on thinkjet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI thinkblt
[
.I stream
]
.LP
.B think 
[
.B -o
.I stream
]
[
.I file ...
]
.LP
.B nroff
.B -Tthink
.I \&... 
.B | think
[
.B -o
.I stream
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Thinkblt
downloads an interrupt driver for the
HP ThinkJet printer, provides a menu of
operations for printing various data residing in the terminal, and
sets up a
.I stream
.RF ( $HOME/.THINK
by default) on which
.I think
can print data from the host.
It is intended to be down-loaded
once per terminal session.
Most of the menu items are identical to
those of
.IR blitblt (9.1).
The remaining ones are:
.nr xx \w'\f5print mux buffer\f1'u+2n/1n
.TP \n(xx
.B print bitmap
Print whatever bitmap is currently selected, in analogy to
.IR blitblt (9.1).
The widest printable bitmap is 640 pixels across.
.TP
.B print mux buffer
Print the
.I mux
`snarf' buffer.
.TP
.B reset printer
Sends
.RB ESC- E .
.PP
While the printer is operating, a different menu
allows one to abort or pause the print operation.
The
printer has a fairly large internal buffer, so response may be
slow.
.PP
Files on the host may be printed by giving them as arguments or standard input to
.IR think .
When used with
.IR nroff ,
names like 
.B \e('e
may be used to access the special characters
provided by the hardware; the
.I nroff
terminal driving file has a complete list; see
.IR troff (1).
Both
.I nroff
and
.IR pr (1)
will paginate properly if top-of-form is set so that the paper tear is aligned
flush with the top of the metal clip which holds the absorber.
.SH FILES
.F $HOME/.THINK
.br
.F /usr/lib/term/tab.think
nroff descriptor file
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR troff (1), 
.IR pr (1), 
.IR blitblt (9.1)
.SH BUGS
The 5620 ROM program is unable to cope with interrupts from the printer;
it is therefore necessary to download
.IR mux (9.1)
before turning on the printer.
.br
.I Thinkblt
substitutes its own interrupt routine for the (trivial) one provided by
.IR mux (9.1).
The latter is restored upon exit, but havoc may result if the
.I thinkblt
layer is simply deleted.
.br
The special
.I nroff
character names are not currently supported by any other device.
