.TH VISMON 9.1
.CT 1 sa_mortals comm_users
.SH NAME
vismon, sysmon, vwhois \- system statistics and mail notification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vismon
[
.BI - n
]
[
.B -m
]
[
.I system ...
]
.PP
.B sysmon
[
.BI - n
]
[
.B -m
]
[
.I system ...
]
.PP
.B vwhois
.I person
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vismon
monitors use of one or more Unix
.I systems.
It displays time of day, announcements,
and CPU usage statistics.
.PP
CPU usage is reported as a numerical load average (average number
of runnable processes) and its change in the last
minute, and a bar graph showing, left-to-right, the
proportion of CPU time spent in: default-priority user processes,
low priority (nice) processes, system kernel, stream I/O, and idle time.
.PP
Arrival of mail or communications via
.IR wall (8)
or
.IR write (1)
is announced.
Mail announcements include an icon of the sender.
Communications appear in a shell
.RI ( sh (1))
layer superimposed on
.I vismon's
layer.
This layer may be used for reply.
.PP
The options are:
.TP
.BI - n
Update the bar graph every
.I n
seconds.
.RI ( n =5
by default.)
.TP
.BI -m
Do not monitor CPU usage on other systems.
.PP
Button 2 selectively toggles the monitoring of other systems.
The list of systems is obtained from one of the following: 
a file named in the VISMON enviroment variable,
.FR $HOME/lib/vismon ,
or
.FR /usr/jerq/lib/vismon .
.PP
.I Sysmon
is the same as
.I vismon
without icons.
.PP
.I Vwhois
causes a dummy mail announcement from
.I person
to appear in
.I vismon
layers.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/spool/mail/mail.log
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/mbin/sysmon.m
terminal program
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/lib/sysdaemon
remote monitoring program
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/lib/sysdaemon
responder for remote monitoring
.TP
.F /usr/spool/mail
.TP
.F /usr/spool/mail/mail.log
.TP
.F /n/face/*
vismon pictures
.TP
.F /usr/jerq/lib/vismon
.TP
.F $HOME/lib/vismon
menu of machines
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR face (9.7),
.IR faced (9.5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
`Can't open comm window' means a shell layer cannot be created.
To receive any further communications, delete some layer.
.SH BUGS
There's more to system performance than meets the eye.
