.TH DIST 1
.SH NAME
dist \(mi distribute files to remote systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\".BI "dist [ " system " | -[Ff] " file " ] [ -n ] " files
.BI "dist [ " system " | -[Ff] " file " ] " files
.PP
.B "dist -q ["
.I system
.B "| -[Ff]"
.I file
.B "]"
.PP
.B "dist -r ["
.I system
.B "| -[Ff]"
.I file
.B "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dist
distributes files to other systems, where they are installed
under the same names.
.I Dist
operates by packaging the files with
.IR mkpkg (1),
and queuing the resulting package in a spool directory to be
picked up by the remote systems.
.PP
The remote systems' names are given as a single argument, containing
the system names (in the format of
.IR ipc (3))
separated by white space; alternatively, the
.B -f
option may be used to specify a file containing a list of system names.
The
.B -F
option is identical to
.B -f
except
.I dist
looks for the file in a standard directory.
.PP
The
.I dist
command has two forms of use.  In the first form,
.I dist
packages a group of files and queues them for transmission.
.\"If the
.\".B -n
.\"option is specified, the remote systems are notified that the package
.\"is available.
The
.I file
arguments may be either file names or options for
.IR mkpkg (1).
.PP
When 
.B -q
is given,
.I dist
queries the named systems and displays the contents of their transmission
queues; if no systems are given the local queue is displayed
by default.
.PP
When
.B -r
is given,
.I dist
calls the named system and installs any packages it has queued for
the local system.
.SH EXAMPLES
Distribute a new binary for grep to all vaxes:
.IP
.B "dist -F vaxes /bin/grep"
.SH FILES
.B /usr/lib/dist/*
.br
.B /usr/lib/dist/destinations/*
.br
.B /usr/spool/dist/*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR mkpkg (1),
.IR dist (5),
.IR dist (8)
