.TH DIST 5
.SH NAME
dist \(mi spool directory structure for
.B dist
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ds sd /usr/spool/dist
.B \*(sd/Q.*/
.PP
.B \*(sd/Q.*/ctl
.PP
.B \*(sd/Q.*/data
.PP
.B \*(sd/Q.*/files
.PP
.B \*(sd/Q.*/[1-9]*.busy
.PP
.B \*(sd/Q.*/[1-9]*.done
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I dist
spool directory contains distributions queued for transmission
to remote systems, and is also used as the working directory when
unpacking distributions received from remote systems.
.PP
Each job has its own subdirectory
of the spool directory.  Several files with conventional names
appear in this per-job directory, as well as files with
generated names containing status information for each remote
system in the job.
.PP
The files in a job's spool directory include:
.TP
.B ctl
The control file contains a list of identifying numbers
and remote system names.  The identifying number
is used in file names containing status information for corresponding
remote system, since network names may not be legal file names.
The file contains a sequence of lines; each line contains
an identifying number, a space, and the corresponding remote system name.
.TP
.B data
The data file contains the output of
.IR mkpkg (1)
for the distribution.
.TP
.B files
A list of file names specified in the command line
that created the job.  This is mainly used as a key
for superseding jobs:  if a new job is created that
contains a superset of the files of some old
job, the old job is marked as completed for all remote
systems it has in common with the new job.
.TP
.B [1-9]*.busy
An empty lock file indicating that the identified system
is currently receiving the distribution.
.TP
.B [1-9]*.done
Status file indicating that the identified system is
finished with the distribution.  This file is empty
if and only if the distribution was successfully installed;
otherwise it contains any error messages from the remote
system.
.SH FILES
.B \*(sd/*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR dist (1),
.IR dist (8)
