.TH AS 1 
.CT 1 prog_other
.SH NAME
as \- assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B as
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I name ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I As
assembles the named files, or the standard input if no file name is specified.
The options are:
.TP
.BI -d n
Specifies the number of bytes
.I n
(1, 2, or 4) to be assembled for offsets
which involve forward or external references, and which have sizes unspecified
in the assembly language.
Default is 
.BR -d4 .
.TP
.B -L
Save defined labels that begin with
.LR L ,
which are normally discarded
to save space in the resultant symbol table.
The compilers generate such temporary labels.
.TP
.B -V
Use virtual memory for intermediate storage, rather than a temporary file.
.TP
.B -W
Do not complain about errors.
.TP
.B -J
Use long branches to resolve jumps when byte-displacement branches are
insufficient.  This must be used when a compiler-generated assembly contains
branches of more than 32K bytes.
.TP
.B -R
Make initialized data segments read-only, by concatenating them to
the text segments.
This obviates the need to run editor scripts on assembly
code to make initialized data read-only and shared.
.TP
.B -t
Specifies a directory to receive the temporary file, other than
the default
.FR /tmp .
.TP
.BI -o obj
Place output in file
.I obj.
Default is
.FR a.out .
.PP
All undefined symbols in the assembly
are treated as global.
.SH FILES
.TF /tmp/as*
.TP
.F /tmp/as*
default temporary file
.TP
.F a.out
default object file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR ld (1),
.IR nm (1),
.IR adb (1),
.IR pi (9.1),
.IR a.out (5)
.br
J. F. Reiser and R. R. Henry
`Assembler Reference Manual',
.I Unix Programmer's Manual, Seventh Edition, Virtual VAX-11 Version,
1980, Volume 2C (Berkeley)
.SH BUGS
.B -J
should be eliminated; the assembler should automatically choose among
byte, word and long branches.
