.TH BACKUP 1
.CT 1 sa_mortals 
.SH NAME
backup \- backup and recover files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "backup recover"
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.PP
.B "backup grep"
[
.I option ...
]
.I pattern ...
.PP
.B "backup fetch"
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B "backup stats"
[
.I option ...
]
.PP
.B "backup backup"
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B "backup munge"
.PP
.B "backup mount"
[
.I option ...
]
.I mountpt
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I backup
programs save and restore archival copies of files in an optical disk
store on a central system (see
.IR backup (5)).
Backup occurs automatically daily (see
.IR backup (8))
and upon specific request via
.IR "backup backup" .
.I "Backup grep"
shows backup copy names for specific files, and
.I "backup fetch"
restores data from specific backup copies.
.I "Backup recover"
is a combination of these two;
it fetches the most recent copy.
All the
.I backup
programs describe their options when presented
with a bad option such as
.BR -? .
.PP
.I "Backup recover"
retrieves
.I files
by name.
The names should be full pathnames rooted at
.BR /n/ ;
if not,
.I backup
tries to guess names that begin with
.BR /n/ .
Directories should be recovered before their contents.
Regular files that are linked together will stay linked if they
are recovered together.
The options for
.I recover
are:
.TP
.BI -o " dir"
The argument is restored as an entry in the directory
.IR dir .
.PD 0
.TP
.B -v
Verbose (enforced).
.TP
.B -F
Restore directories as files containing a null-terminated list of element names.
.TP
.B -r
Recursively recover any subdirectories.
.TP
.B -d
Create any missing intermediate directories.
.TP
.BI -D old = new
Replace the prefix
.I old
of the original filename with
.I new
to form the new output filename.
.TP
.B -m
The names are backup copy names, as determined from
.I backup grep,
not original filenames.
.TP
.BI -fdevice
Use
.I device
rather than
.B /dev/worm0
for the WORM.
.I Device
may be on another machine:
.IB machine ! device\fR.
An initial
.B w
implies a WORM device; a
.B j
implies a jukebox.
A numeric 
.I device
means
.BI /dev/worm device\fR.
.TP
.B -e
Cause the
.I worm fetch
server on the backup system to terminate gracefully.
.TP
.B -i
Append
.BI . n
to the output name for each file where
.I n
is an increasing integer.
This is useful for recovering multiple copies of the same file.
.PD
.PP
A diagnostic like
.B "need disk backup2a"
means you need to mount the
A side of the cartridge labeled
.BR backup2 .
.PP
.I "Backup grep"
searches for names of backed up files that match the strings
.IR patterns .
If the pattern is a literal (no
.BR -e )
that looks like a filename, 
it reports the filename catenated with
.B //
and the time
of the most recent backup copy.
If the pattern is a literal that looks like the output under option
.BR -d , 
it reports the name of the corresponding backup copy.
The options are:
.TP
.B -d
Print file change times 
.RB ( ctime ,
see
.IR stat (2))
as integers rather than as dates.
.PD 0
.TP
.B -e
Interpret
.I patterns
as regular expressions
given in the notation of
.IR regexp (3).
Warning:
this option can execute extremely slowly;
it is almost always better to use
.IR gre (1)
on
.F /usr/backup/filenames
on the backup machine; see
.IR backup (5).
.TP
.B -a
Print all names in the database.
.TP
.B -V
Treat
.I pattern
as a literal filename
and list all versions of the file.
.TP
.BI -< n
Only list entries with a date less than or equal to
.IR n .
If
.I n
is not a simple integer date, it is interpreted as by
.IR timec (3).
.TP
.BI -> n
Only list entries with a date greater than or equal to
.IR n .
.TP
.B -D
Print the most recent entry for every file name starting with
.I pattern,
taking into account any cutoff date, but turning off option
.BR -e .
.PD
.PP
.I Backup fetch
takes from its arguments or from standard input
backup copy names as reported by
.I backup grep
(such as
.BR v2345/987 )
and restores the corresponding files.
It accepts the same options as
.I backup recover
except 
.BR -m ;
.B -v
is really optional.
Irrelevant prefixes are stripped from backup copy names.
Thus the output of the
.I "backup grep"
command can be used directly.
.PP
.I "Backup stats"
provides statistics about the files backed up.
By default, it looks for all systems and all users and gives a grand total.
The options are
.nr xx \w'\f5-u \fIusers '
.TP \n(xxu
.B -i
Give information per system or user 
rather than a total.
.TP
.BI -s " systems
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI -u " users
With option
.BR -i ,
restrict the total to the systems or users named in
comma-separated lists.
The name
.L *
expands to all systems or all users.
.TP
.B -d
Print average number of files and bytes for the last 1 day,
7 days and 30 days.
.PP
.I "Backup backup"
backs up files.
If no file names are given,
they are taken from standard input.
File names are interpreted as in
.IR "backup recover" .
The files are safely on the backup system when the command exits but
will normally take a day to get into the backup database.
.PP
.I "Backup munge"
causes the backup system to process any received files.
When this terminates (assuming no errors), the files have been
put onto backup media and have been absorbed into the database.
.PP
.I "Backup mount"
is an experimental way to access backed up files.
The specified part of the backup files
(set by
.BI -D root
or
.B /
by default) is mounted at
.IR mountpt .
There is one option
.TP \n(xxu
.BI -d " date
Make the mounted hierarchy reflect the state at 
the given date.
The mounting can be reversed with
.IR umount ;
see
.IR mount (8).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L
backup stats -i -s '*'
Get totals for all systems.
.TP
.L
backup fetch `backup grep -d \e`backup grep -d /n/bowell/etc/passwd\e``
What 
.I backup recover
does for you.
.TP
.L
backup recover /n/coma/usr/rob/fortunes
.br
.ns
.TP
.L
cd /n/coma/usr/rob; backup recover fortunes
Two ways to get the latest available copy of
.BR /n/coma/usr/rob/fortunes .
.TP
.L
backup grep -V /n/coma/usr/rob/fortunes
List all available copies of
.B /n/coma/usr/rob/fortunes
with their dates.
.TP
.L
backup recover -m -o /tmp /n/wild/usr/backup/v/v919/678
.br
.ns
.TP
.L
backup recover -m -o /tmp v919/678
Two ways to recover a specific backup copy and place the result in
.BR /tmp .
.B /n/wild/usr/backup/v/v919/678
is the name of the backup copy; the file will be restored to
its home machine, not to
.BR wild .
.TP
.L
backup grep -V /n/coma/usr/rob/fortunes | backup fetch -i -o .
Recover all the versions of the fortunes file into
.BR fortunes.1 ,
.BR fortunes.2 ,
\&... in the current directory.
.PD
.SH FILES
.F /usr/lib/backup
\h'.5i'home of all datafiles and executables (on client machines)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR worm (8),
.IR backup (5), 
.IR backup (8)
.SH BUGS
Recovery via symbolic links may not work; use the non-linked pathname.
