.TH C++ 1
.CT 1 prog_c
.SH NAME
CC, cfront \- C++ compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B CC
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.PP
.B cfront
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I CC
compiles and links C++ programs in the manner of
.IR cc (1).
It handles source files with names ending in
.LR .c  ,
assembler files in
.LR .s ,
and object files in
.LR .o .
Various passes of the compiler can be substituted via
environment variables listed under
.SM `FILES'.
Options include those of
.IR cc (1)
except
.BR -B 
and
.BR -t ,
those of
.IR ld (1),
those of
.I cfront,
and in addition
.TP
.BR -F
Run only the macro preprocessor 
.IR cpp (8)
and
.I cfront
on the named 
.B .c
files, and send the result to the
standard output.
.TP
.BI -. suffix
Instead of the standard output, place
.B -E 
and
.B -F
output in files whose name is that of the source with 
.BI . suffix
substituted for
.LR .c .
.PP
.I Cfront
reads C++ code (without preprocessing) from the standard input
and writes equivalent C code on the standard output.
The options are
.TP
.B +d
Don't expand inline functions.
.TP
.BI +x file
Take size and alignment information from
.I file
for cross compiling.
.TP
.B +e0
.PD0
.TP
.B +e1
Make external declarations 
.RB (+e0)
or definitions
.BR (+e1)
for virtual function tables.
These tables may appear as static data in
every compilation;
the options are intended to save redundant space.
.PD
.TP
.B +a0
Produce classic C output (default).
.TP
.B +a1
Produce 
.SM ANSI
C output.
If this option is used with
.I CC,
then an
.SM ANSI
C compiler such as
.I lcc
must be specified in environment variable
.BR ccC .
.TP
.BI +f name
Use
.I name
to identify the source file in diagnostics.
.TP
.B +L
Produce
.SM ANSI
standard
.B #line
directives instead of
.BI # number.
.SH FILES
.TF cfrontC=/usr/bin/cfront
.TP
.B cppC=/lib/cpp
C preprocessor
.TP
.B cfrontC=/usr/bin/cfront
C++ translator
.TP
.B ccC=/bin/cc
C compiler
.TP
.B munchC=/usr/lib/munch
linker postprocessor for static initialization
.TP
.F /usr/lib/libC.a
C++ library
.TP
.F /usr/include/CC
standard directory for C++
.L #include
files
.TP
Other files as in \fIcc\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR cc (1),
.IR ld (1)
.br
B. Stroustrup,
.I The C++ Programming Language,
Addison-Wesley, 1986
.br
B. Stroustrup,
.I C++ Reference Manual,
AT&T Bell Laboratories, May 1989
