.TH CBT 1 
.CT 1 files
.SH NAME
cbt \- btree utilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cbt creat
.I name ...
.br
.B cbt report
.I name ...
.br
.B cbt cat
[
.B -R
]
.I name ...
.br
.B cbt squash
[
.BI -o dest
]
.I name
.br
.B cbt build
[
.B -R
]
.I name
.br
.B cbt add
[
.B -R
]
.I name
.br
.B cbt delete
[
.B -R
]
.I name
.br
.B cbt look
[
.B -R
]
.I name
.SH DESCRIPTION
A B-tree
.I name
corresponds to a pair of
files named
.IB name .T
and
.IB name .F .
.IB Name .T
contains an access tree,
and
.IB name .F
contains the data.
.PP
The
.L creat
version of the command creates empty B-trees.
.PP
The
.L report
version of the command scans each B-tree and reports how many records it
contains.
.PP
The
.L cat
version of the command scans the
B-tree in key-sort order, writing on its standard output.
With no option,
.L cat 
writes each key followed by a tab,
followed by the record, followed by a new-line.
If option
.B -R
(raw) is present,
each key-record pair has the format
.PP
.EX
.nf
struct {
	short keylen;
	char key[keylen];
	short reclen;
	char rec[reclen];
};
.EE
.LP 
Keys and records are not null-terminated and
consecutive key-record pairs are not separated by new-lines.
Keys may be no longer than 255 bytes.
.PP
The
.L squash
version of the command compresses the access tree to minimal size.
Option
.B -o
names the squashed database
.IR dest ,
leaving the original database unaltered.
.PP
The
.L build
version of the command reads a sorted list of keys
and records from the standard input and fills the file
with them.
Input is in the form produced by the corresponding
.L cat 
option.
.PP
The
.L add
.RB ( delete,
.LR look )
version of the command
inserts (removes, looks up) records.
Input (and output of
.LR look )
is in the form produced by the corresponding
.L cat 
option.
The records may be unsorted.
In newline-separated input, only the keys need be present.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L
sort '-t\fR<tab>\fP' +0 -1 inputfile | cbt build btreefile
<tab> denotes a tab character
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/btree/*
.TP
.F /usr/lib/btree/*
.TP
.F \fIname\fP.[TF]
.TP
.F TS*[TF]
temporaries for
.B squash
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR cbt (3)
