.TH CON 1
.CT 1 comm_mach
.SH NAME
con, rx \- remote login and execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B con
[
.B -l
]
.I machine
.PP
.B rx
[
.B -n
]
.I machine
[
.I command-word ...
]
.PP
.BI /usr/bin/m/ machine
[
.I command-word ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Con
connects to the computer whose network address is
.I machine
and logs in if possible.
Standard input and output go to the local machine.
Option
.B -l
prevents automatic login; a normal login dialog ensues.
.PP
The quit signal (control-\e) is a local escape.
It prompts with the local machine name and
.BR >> .
Legitimate responses to the prompt are
.TP \w'\fL!\fIcommand\ \ 'u
.B i
Send a quit [sic] signal to the remote machine.
.PD0
.TP
.BR q , " x" ", or " .
Exit.
.TP
.B b
Send a break.
.TP
.BI ! command
Execute
.I command
locally.
.PD
.PP
.I Rx
executes one shell command
on the remote machine as if logged in there,
but with local standard input and output.
Unquoted shell metacharacters in the command
are interpreted
locally, quoted ones remotely.
The assignment
.B REXEC=1
appears in the remote environment.
With no arguments, 
.I rx
just diagnoses availability.
Option
.B -n 
ignores sporadic end-of-file indications on a
sick network.
.PP
Network addresses for both
.I con
and
.I rx
have the form
.IB network ! host
or simply
.I host.
Supported networks are
.L dk
(Datakit) and
.L tcp
(TCP/IP, usually Ethernet).
.PP
Directory
.F /usr/bin/m
contains machine names as commands:
.BI /usr/bin/m/ machine
with no argument runs an appropriate flavor of
.I con
for the named
.I machine.
If given arguments,
.BI /usr/bin/m/ machine
runs
.I rx
with those arguments.
If
.F /usr/bin/m
is in the
.IR sh (1)
search path,
the names become commands for navigating the
local cluster.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L
rx overthere cat file1 >file2
Copy remote
.I file1
to local
.IR file2 .
.TP
.L
rx overthere cat file1 ">file2"
Copy remote
.I file1
to remote
.IR file2.
.TP
.L
eqn paper | rx pipe troff -ms | rx arend lp
Parallel processing:
do each stage of a pipeline on a different machine.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/ipc/lib/auth*
.TP
.F /usr/ipc/lib/auth*
authentication
.TP
.F /usr/ipc/lib/serv*
servers
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR push (1),
.IR dcon (1),
.IR cu (1),
.IR dkmgr (8),
.IR svcmgr (8),
.IR tcpmgr (8),
.IR ipc (3)
.br
D. L. Presotto,
`Interprocess Communication in the Eighth Edition
.SM UNIX
System',
this manual, Volume\ 2
.SH BUGS
The remote standard error and standard output are combined 
and go inseparably to the local standard output.
.br
Under
.I rx,
a program
that should behave specially towards terminals may not:
.IR sh (1)
will not prompt,
.IR vi (1)
will not manage the screen, etc.
.I Nrx
(see
.IR dcon (1))
avoids this trouble, but has others of its own.
.br
.I Con
and
.I rx
may not guess the right kind of connection.
In case of trouble, try the programs in
.IR dcon (1).
.br
The names in
.F /usr/bin/m
are conventions, not actual network addresses.
