.TH CP 1 
.CT 1 files
.SH NAME
cp, mv, ln, reccp \- copy, move, or link files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cp
[
.B -z
]
.I file1 file2
.br
.B cp
[
.B -z
]
.I file ... directory
.PP
.B mv
[
.B -f
]
.I file1 file2
.br
.B mv
[
.B -f
]
.I file ... directory
.PP
.B ln
[
.B -s
]
.I file1 file2
.br
.B ln
[
.B -s
]
.I file ... directory
.PP
.B reccp
[
.B -z
]
.I file1 file2
.br
.B reccp
[
.B -z
]
.I file ... directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
In the first form of each command,
.I file2
is any name except an existing directory.
In the second form the command
copies, moves, or links one or more
.I files
into a
.I directory
under their original filenames, as if by a sequence of 
commands in the first form.
Thus
.L "mv f1 f2 dir
is equivalent to
.LR "mv f1 dir/f1; mv f2 dir/f2" .
.PP
.I Cp
copies the contents of plain
.I file1
to
.IR file2 .
The mode and owner of  
.I file2
are preserved if it already
exists; the mode of
.I file1
is used otherwise.
.PP
.I Mv
moves
.I file1
to
.IR file2 .
If the two files are in the same file system, the name
.I file1
is simply changed to
.IR file2 ;
if they are in different file systems,
.I file1
is copied and then removed.
If
.I file2
already exists, it is removed before
.I file1
is moved.
In this case the mode of
.I file2
is reported if it
is not writable and the standard input is a terminal.
Respond
.L y 
(and newline) to permit removal.
.PP
.I Ln
links plain
.I file1
and
.IR file2 .
.I File2
becomes an alternate name for, and is otherwise
identical to,
.I file1.
.I File2
must be in the same file system as
.I file1
and must not already exist.
.PP
.I Reccp
copies plain files like
.I cp,
but copies directories and their contents recursively.
It attempts to duplicate linkage and dates.
When run by the super-user, it preserves ownership
and copies device files as device files.
.PP
The options are:
.TP
.B -z
Preserve `holes'; see
.IR lseek (2).
.TP
.B -f
Forcibly remove
.IR file2 
without asking.
.TP
.B -s
Make symbolic links:
record the (arbitrary) name
.I file1
in 
.I file2.
Except in special cases, such as
.IR rm (1)
and
.I lstat
(see
.IR stat (2)),
subsequent references to 
.I file2
are treated as references to
.IR file1 .
See
.IR link (2)
for details.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B mkdir /usr1/ken; cp /usr/ken/* /usr1/ken
Place in 
.B /usr1/ken
copies of all files from
.BR /usr/ken .
.TP
.B reccp /usr/ken /usr1
.br
.ns
.TP
.B mkdir /usr1/ken; reccp /usr/ken/* /usr1/ken
Two ways to duplicate in
.B /usr1/ken
the whole file hierarchy from
.BR /usr/ken .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR cat (1),
.IR link (2),
.IR stat (2),
.IR push (1),
.IR uucp (1),
.IR rcp (1),
.IR cpio (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Cp,
.I mv,
and
.I reccp
refuse to copy or move files onto themselves or directories into themselves.
.SH BUGS
.I Mv
to a different file system is imperfect: if
.I file1
is a plain file links to it are broken; if it is a
directory, nothing happens.
