.TH CUT 1
.CT 1 files
.SH NAME
cut, paste \- rearrange columns of data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cut 
.BI -c list
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B cut
.BI -f list
[
.BI -d char
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B paste
[
.B -s
]
[
.BI -d chars
]
.I file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cut
selects fields from each line of the
.I files
(standard input default).
In data base parlance, it
projects a relation.
The fields
can be fixed length,
as on a punched card (option
.BR -c ),
or be marked with a delimiter character (option
.BR -f ).
.PP
The meanings of the options follow.
A
.I list
is an increasing sequence of integers separated by commas, or by
.B -
to indicate a range, for example
.L 1,3-5,7.
.TF -d\ char\ \ 
.PD
.TP
.BI -c list
The
.I list
specifies character
positions.
.TP
.BI -f list
The
.I list
specifies field numbers.
.TP
.BI -d char
The character
is the delimiter for option
.BR -f .
Default is tab.
.TP
.B -s
Suppress lines with no delimiter characters.
Normally such lines pass through untouched under option
.BR -f .
.PP
.I Paste
concatenates corresponding lines of the input
.I files
and places the result on the standard output.
The file name
.L -
refers to the standard input.
Lines are glued together with
characters taken circularly from the set
.I chars.
The set may contain the special escape sequences
.B \en
(newline),
.B \et
(tab),
.B \e\e
(backslash), and
.B \e0
(empty string, not a null character).
The options are
.TP
.BI -d chars
The output separator characters.
Default is a tab.
.TP
.B -s
Paste together lines of one file,
treating every line as if it came from a distinct input.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L
cut -d: -f1,3 /etc/passwd
Print map from login names to userids, see
.IR passwd (5).
.TP
.L
NAME=`who am i | cut -f1 -d" "`
Set
.L NAME
to current login name (subtly different from
.IR getuid (1)).
.PP
.EX
ls | paste - - - -
ls | paste -s '-d\et\en' -
.EE
.ns
.IP
4-column and 2-column file listing
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR gre (1), 
.IR awk (1), 
.IR sed (1), 
.IR pr (1), 
.IR column (1)
.SH BUGS
.I Cut
should handle disordered lists under option
.BR -f .
.br
In default of file names,
.I paste
should read the the standard input.
