.TH DCON 1
.CT 1 comm_mach
.SH NAME
dcon, ndcon, rlogin, nrx, rsh, scriptcon \- remote login and execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dcon
[
.I option ...
]
.I machine
.PP
.B ndcon
.I machine
.PP
.B rlogin
.I machine
.PP
.B nrx
.I machine
[
.I command-word ...
]
.PP
.B rsh
[
.I option ...
]
.I machine
[
.I command-word ...
]
.PP
.B scriptcon
.I machine script
.SH DESCRIPTION
Do not read this page unless you are familiar with
.IR con (1).
.PP
.I Dcon,
.I ndcon,
and
.I rlogin
are analogs (or special cases) of
.IR con (1)
for specific kinds of network connection.
They support the same local escape convention with the quit signal.
.PP
Similarly,
.I nrx
and
.I rsh
are analogs of
.IR rx.
.PP
Network addresses are as in
.IR con (1).
The default networks for the various commands are
.TP "\w'dcon, ndcon, nrx  'u
.I dcon, ndcon, nrx
.B dk
.TP
.I rlogin, rsh
.B tcp
.PP
.I Dcon
connects to the remote machine, and attempts
automatically to log in under
the login id of the invoking user.
Option
.BR -l 
turns off automatic login; the remote machine will ask
for a login id and password.
.PP
.I Ndcon
behaves like
.I dcon
but provides a more transparent 
transport protocol.
In particular terminal line disciplines are preserved
and it is possible to download into a
.IR mux (9.1)
window across an
.I ndcon
connection.
.PP
.I Rlogin
is like
.IR dcon ,
but uses the connection protocol
found on Berkeley systems.
.PP
.I Rx
(see
.IR con (1))
executes one shell command on the remote machine
as if logged in there,
with local standard input and output.
It uses a connection protocol specific to Research machines.
.PP
.I Nrx
is to 
.I rx
as
.I ndcon
is to
.IR dcon :
it runs a command
remotely with line discipline preserved.
.PP
.I Rsh
is to
.I rx
as
.I rlogin
is to
.IR dcon :
it runs a command remotely using the Berkeley execution protocol.
.PP
.I Scriptcon
provides a connection like
.BR "dcon \-l" ,
except that the login and other initial protocol are
controlled by a
.I script
file.
The first line of the file gives a string (e.g.\&
.LR login: )
expected from the
remote machine; the second gives the local response, and
so on in alternation.
Unrecognized data from the remote machine are ignored.
Warning: a script that contains a password
may compromise the security of the remote system, hence
.I scriptcon
should be used only for restricted logins.
.PP
.I Con
tries to connect using the protocol of
.IR ndcon ;
if that fails,
it tries that of
.IR dcon ,
then that of
.IR rlogin .
.I Rx
attempts its own style of connection;
if that fails,
it tries that of
.IR rsh .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR con (1),
.IR dkmgr (8),
.IR svcmgr (8),
.IR tcpmgr (8),
.IR ipc (3)
.br
D. L. Presotto,
`Interprocess Communication in the Eighth Edition
.SM UNIX
System',
this manual, Volume\ 2
.SH BUGS
If a program run by
.I nrx
won't let go, for example by ignoring
signals, there is no way of getting out short of hanging up.
.br
There is no error correction or retry in a
.I scriptcon
script.
