.TH DEROFF 1 
.CT 1 writing_aids
.SH NAME
deroff, demonk, detex, delatex \- remove formatting requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B deroff
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.PP
.B demonk
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.PP
.B detex
.I file
.PP
.B delatex
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Deroff
reads each file in sequence
and removes all
.I nroff
and
.IR troff (1)
requests and non-text arguments, backslash constructions,
and constructs of preprocessors such as
.I eqn, pic,
and
.IR tbl (1).
Remaining text is written on the standard output.
.I Deroff
follows files included by
.L .so
and
.L .nx
commands;
if a file has already been included, a
.L .so
for that file is ignored and a
.L .nx
terminates execution.
If no input file is given,
.I deroff
reads from standard input.
.PP
The options are
.TP
.B -w
Output a word list, one `word' (string of letters, digits, and
properly embedded ampersands and apostrophes,
beginning with a letter) per line.
Other characters are skipped.
Otherwise, the output follows the original, with the deletions mentioned above.
.TP
.B -i
Ignore
.L .so
and
.L .nx
requests.
.TP
.BR -ms
.PD0
.TP
.B -mm
Remove titles, attachments, etc., as well as ordinary 
.IR troff
constructs, from
.IR ms (6)
or
.I mm
documents.
.PD
.TP
.B -ml
Same as
.BR -mm ,
but remove lists as well.
.PP
.I Demonk
removes all
.IR monk (1)
commands and then invokes
.I deroff
to handle both
.I troff
commands and preprocessor constructs.
.I Demonk
follows files included by
.L |\^insert
and
.L |\^source
commands as well as
.I troff
.L .so
and
.L .nx
requests.
If no input file is given,
.I demonk
reads from standard input.
.PP
.I Demonk
recognizes the following options and passes all options except
.B -b
and
.B -d
to
.I deroff .
.TP
.B -i
Ignore
.I monk
.L |\^insert
and
.L |\^source
commands as well as
.I troff
.L .so
and
.L .nx
requests.
.TP
.B -b
Do not output blank lines resulting from the removal of
.I monk
commands.
.TP
.BI -d dir
Use non-standard 
.I monk
database directory
.I
dir.
.PP
.I Detex
and
.I delatex
do for
.IR tex (1)
and
.IR latex (6)
files what
.B deroff -w
does for
.I troff
files.
.I Delatex
largely subsumes
.I detex.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR troff (1), 
.IR monk (1), 
.IR tex (1),
.IR spell (1),
.IR wwb (1)
.SH BUGS
These filters are not complete interpreters of
.I troff
or
.I tex.
For example, macro definitions containing
.L \e$
cause chaos in
.IR deroff
when the popular
.L $$
delimiters for
.I eqn
are in effect. 
.br
Text inside macros is emitted at place of
definition, not place of call.
