.TH DIRED 1
.CT 1 dirs
.SH NAME
dired \- directory editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dired
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dired 
displays a directory listing like
.L ls -l
(see
.IR ls (1))
and allows you to prowl around the listed entries,
deleting, editing, and displaying them.
It requires a cursor-addressed terminal identified
in environment variable
.BR TERM ;
see
.IR term (9.1)
to simulate such terminals in
.IR mux (9.1).
.PP
With no
.I file
argument, the current directory is listed.
With only one
.I file
argument, the argument is interpreted as a directory and it is listed.
With multiple arguments, the arguments are interpreted as filenames.
The options are:
.TP
.BR - [ sr ][ nsrw ]
Sort the file list by
name (default), size, access time, or modification time.
Ordering for
.B s
is increasing if by name, decreasing otherwise.
Ordering is opposite for
.BR r .
.TP
.BI -w n
If 
.I n
is
.BR f,
use the full screen; if
.BR h ,
use half the screen (default); if a number, use
.I n
lines for the directory listing, reserving the rest
of the screen for quick
file display.
.PP
The fields of a
.I dired
listing are: mode, link count, owner, size, write date and name.
A cursor shows the current entry.
.PP
Commands consist of single characters; arguments are
prompted for at the bottom of the screen.
To get a complete list, use the help command.
Fuller descriptions of less obvious commands are given below.
.TP
.B !
Prompt for a shell command.
The command is executed with
.L %
characters in the command are replaced by the pathname of the current
entry, and 
.L #
characters by the basename.
.TP
.B .
Repeat the previous
.B !
shell command, using the current entry to replace
.L %
or
.LR # .
.TP
.B d
Mark the current entry for deletion.
Deletion of a directory is recursive.
.TP
.B e
If the current entry is a file,
edit it with the editor 
.I e,
or an editor named by the environment variable 
.BR EDITOR .
If it is a directory,
invoke
.IR dired
recursively for that directory.
.TP
.B h
.br
.ns
.TP
.B ?
Display a help file.
.TP
.B m
Display the current file with the pager
.IR p (1),
or another pager named by the environment variable 
.BR PAGER .
.TP
.B q
Quit this directory level of
.I dired.
List the files marked for deletion and request
confirmation before deleting them.
.TP
.B t
Type.
Display the current file.
In two-window mode pause after each screenfull until you type
a carriage return.
The display may be interrupted.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/dired
.TP
.F /usr/lib/dired
help file 
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ls (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
While
.I dired
is preparing a listing it reports `Reading',
and types a dot
for each 10 files.
.SH BUGS
Long lines and diagnostics can foul up the
display.
.br
Needs a command to search for a given file.
.br
The off-line print command
.L p
is broken.
