.\" Copyright (c) 1985 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)ftp.1	6.12.1.1 (Berkeley) 3/2/89
.\"
.TH FTP 1 "February 23, 1989"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
ftp \- internet file transfer program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ftp
[ 
.I option ...
] [
.B host
]
.PP
.B pftp
[ 
.I option ...
] [
.B host
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ftp
transfers files to and from a remote network 
.I host
computer via the Internet file transfer protocol.
To reach outside Internet sites from 
v10 machines, prefix the Internet host name with
.LR inet! ;
from System V machines, use
.I pftp.
After attempting to connect to the remote host, if any, 
.I ftp
enters its command interpreter and prompts for instructions.
The following commands are recognized:
.TP
\f5\&!\fP [ \fIcommand\fP [ \fIargs\fP ] ]
Invoke an interactive shell on the local machine.
If there are arguments, the first is taken to be a command to execute
directly, with the rest of the arguments as its arguments.
.TP
\f5\&$\fP \fImacro-name\fP [ \fIargs\fP ]
Execute the macro \fImacro-name\fP that was defined with the
\f5macdef\fP command.
Arguments are passed to the macro unglobbed.
.TP
\f5account\fP [ \fIpasswd\fP ]
Supply a supplemental password required by a remote system for access
to resources once a login has been successfully completed.
If no argument is included, the user will be prompted for an account
password in a non-echoing input mode.
.TP
\f5append\fP \fIlocal-file\fP [ \fIremote-file\fP ]
Append a local file to a file on the remote machine.  If a
.I remote-file
is not specified, the local file name is used 
subject to altering
.I ntrans
or
.I nmap .
File transfer uses the current settings for
.IR type ,
.IR format ,
.IR mode ,
and
.IR structure .
.TP
.B ascii
Set the file transfer 
.I type
to network ASCII.  This is the default type.
.TP
.B bell
Arrange that a bell be sounded after each file transfer
command is completed.
.TP
.B binary
Set the file transfer
.I type
to support binary image transfer.
.TP
.B bye
Terminate the session.
An end of file will also terminate the session.
.TP
.B case
Toggle remote computer file name case mapping during
.B mget
commands.
When
.B case
is on (default is off), remote computer file names with all letters in
upper case are written in the local directory with the letters mapped
to lower case.
.TP
.BI cd " remote-directory"
Change the working directory on the remote machine
to 
.IR remote-directory .
.TP
.B cdup
Change the remote machine working directory to the parent of the
current remote machine working directory.
.TP
.B close
Terminate the session.
Any defined macros are erased.
.TP
.B cr
Toggle carriage return stripping during
ascii type file retrieval.
Records are denoted by a carriage return/linefeed sequence
during ascii type file transfer.
When
.B cr
is on (the default), carriage returns are stripped from this
sequence to conform with the UNIX single linefeed record
delimiter.
Records on non-UNIX remote systems may contain single linefeeds;
when an ascii type transfer is made, these linefeeds may be
distinguished from a record delimiter only when
.B cr
is off.
.TP
.BI delete " remote-file"
Delete the file
.I remote-file
on the remote machine.
.TP
\f5debug\fP [ \fIdebug-level\fP ]
Toggle debugging or set the debugging level.
When debugging is on,
.I ftp
prints each command sent to the remote machine, preceded
by the string 
.LR --> .
.TP
\f5dir\fP [ \fIremote-directory\fP ] [ \fIlocal-file\fP ]
Place in
.IR local-file
a listing of the contents of
.IR remote-directory .
If 
.I local-file
is
.LR -
or absent send output to the terminal.
If 
.L prompt
is on,
.I ftp
asks for 
.I local-file
to be confirmed.
If no 
.IR remote-directory
is specified, the current working
directory on the remote machine is used.
.TP
.B disconnect
A synonym for
.BR close .
.TP
.BI form " format"
Set the file transfer 
.I form
to 
.IR format .
The default format is 
.LR file .
.TP
\f5get\fP \fIremote-file\fP [ \fIlocal-file\fP ]
Retrieve the 
.I remote-file
and store it on the local machine.  If the local
file name is not specified, it is given the same
name it has on the remote machine, subject to
altering by
.IR case ,
.IR ntrans ,
and
.I nmap
settings.
The current settings for 
.IR type ,
.IR form ,
.IR mode ,
and
.I structure
are used while transferring the file.
.TP
.B glob
Toggle filename expansion for
.BR mdelete ,
.BR mget ,
and
.BR mput .
If globbing is turned off with
.BR glob ,
the file name arguments
are taken literally and not expanded.
Globbing for
.B mput
is done as in
.IR csh (1).
For
.B mdelete
and
.BR mget ,
ach remote file name is expanded
separately on the remote machine and the lists are not merged.
Expansion of a directory may be 
different from expansion of the name of an ordinary file,
depending on the foreign operating system and FTP server.
It may be previewed by doing `\f5mls\fP\ \fIremote-files\fP\ \f5-\fP'.
Note: 
.B mget and
.B mput
are not meant to transfer
entire directory subtrees of files.  That can be done by
transferring a
.IR tar (1)
archive of the subtree (in binary mode).
.TP
.B hash
Toggle hash-sign
.RB ( # )
printing for each data block
transferred.  The size of a data block is 1024 bytes.
.TP
\f5help\fP [ \fIcommand\fP ]
Print an informative message about the meaning of
.IR command .
If no argument is given, 
.I ftp
prints a list of the known commands.
.TP
\f5lcd\fP [ \fIdirectory\fP ]
Change the working directory on the local machine.  If
no 
.I directory
is specified, the user's home directory is used.
.TP
\f5ls\fP [ \fIremote-directory\fP ] [ \fIlocal-file\fP ]
List in
.I local-file
the contents of a
directory on the remote machine.
If \fIlocal-file\fR is 
.L -
or absent,
the output is sent to the terminal.
The form of the list depends on the remote
server; most UNIX systems will produce
output from the command
.LR "ls -l" .
(See also
.BR nlist .)
If
.I remote-directory
is not specified, the current working directory is used.
.TP
\f5macdef\fP \fImacro-name\fP
Define a macro.
Subsequent lines are stored under
\fImacro-name\fP; a null line (consecutive newline characters
in a file or
carriage returns from the terminal) terminates macro input mode.
There is a limit of 16 macros and 4096 total characters in all
defined macros.
Macros remain defined until a
.B close
command is executed.
The macro processor interprets
.B $
and
.B \e
as special characters.
A
.B $
followed by a number (or numbers) is replaced by the
corresponding argument on the macro invocation command line.
A
.B $
followed by an
.L i
signals that macro processor that the
executing macro is to be looped.
On the first pass
.B $i
is
replaced by the first argument on the macro invocation command line,
on the second pass it is replaced by the second argument, and so on.
A
.B \e
followed by any character is replaced by that character.
Use 
.B \e
to prevent special treatment of
.BR $ .
.TP
\f5mdelete\fP [ \fIremote-files\fP ]
Delete the
.I
remote-files
on the remote machine.
.TP
\f5mdir\fP \fIremote-files\fP \fIlocal-file\fP
Like
.BR dir ,
except multiple remote files may be specified.
If interactive prompting is on,
.I ftp
will prompt the user to verify that the last argument is indeed the
target local file for receiving
.B mdir
output.
.TP
\f5mget\fP \fIremote-files\fP
Expand 
.I remote-files
on the remote machine
and do a 
.L get
for each file name thus produced.
See
.L glob
for details on the filename expansion.
Resulting file names will then be processed according to
.IR case ,
.IR ntrans ,
and
.I nmap
settings.
Files are transferred into the local working directory.
.TP
\f5mkdir\fP \fIdirectory-name\fP
Make a directory on the remote machine.
.TP
\f5mls\fP \fIremote-files\fP \fIlocal-file\fP
Like
.LR nlist ,
except multiple remote files may be specified,
and a
.I local-file
must be specified.
If 
.L prompt
is on,
.I ftp
asks to confirm the
.I local-file.
.TP
\f5mode\fP [ \fImode-name\fP ]
Set the file transfer mode to
.IR mode-name .
The default mode is
.LR stream .
.TP
\f5modtime\fP \fIfile-name\fP
Show the last modification time of the file on the remote machine.
.TP
\f5mput\fP \fIlocal-files\fP
Expand wild cards in the list of local files given as arguments
and do a
.L put
for each file in the resulting list.
See
.L glob
for details of filename expansion.
Resulting file names will then be processed according to
.I ntrans
and
.I nmap
settings.
.TP
\f5nlist\fP [ \fIremote-directory\fP ] [ \fIlocal-file\fP ]
Like
.LR ls ,
giving only file names.
.TP
\f5nmap\fP [ \fIinpattern\fP \fIoutpattern\fP ]
Set or unset the filename mapping mechanism.
If no arguments are specified, the filename mapping mechanism is unset.
If arguments are specified, remote filenames are mapped during
.B mput
commands and
.B put
commands issued without a specified remote target filename.
If arguments are specified, local filenames are mapped during
.B mget
commands and
.B get
commands issued without a specified local target filename.
This command is useful when connecting to a non-UNIX remote computer
with different file naming conventions or practices.
The mapping follows the pattern set by
.I inpattern
and
.IR outpattern .
.I Inpattern
is a template for incoming filenames (which may have already been
processed according to the
.B ntrans
and
.B case
settings).
Variable templating is accomplished by including the sequences
.LR $1 ,
.LR $2 ", ...,"
.LR $9
in
.IR inpattern .
Use
.L \e
to prevent special treatment of
.BR $ .
For example, given
.I inpattern
.B $1.$2
and the remote file name
.LR mydata.data ,
.B $1
would have the value
.LR mydata ,
and
.B $2
would have the value
.LR data .
The
.I outpattern
determines the resulting mapped filename.
The sequences
.BR $1 ,
.BR $2 ", ....,"
.B $9
are replaced by any value resulting
from the
.I inpattern
template.
The sequence
.B $0
is replace by the original filename.
Additionally, the sequence '[\fIseq1\fP,\fIseq2\f\P]' is replaced by
.I seq1
if
.I seq1
is not a null string; otherwise it is replaced by
.IR seq2 .
For example, the command 
.L "nmap $1.$2.$3 [$1,$2].[$2,file]"
would yield
the output filename 
.L myfile.data
for input filenames
.L myfile.data
and
.LR myfile.data.old ,
.L myfile.file
or the input filename
.LR myfile ,
and
.LR myfile.myfile
for the input filename
.LR .myfile .
Spaces may be included in
.IR outpattern ,
for example:
.L
nmap $1 "|sed 's/  *$//' > $1" .
.TP
\f5ntrans\fP [ \fIinchars\fP [ \fIoutchars\fP ] ]
Set or unset the filename character translation mechanism.
If no arguments are specified, the filename character
translation mechanism is unset.
If arguments are specified, characters in
remote filenames are translated during
.B mput
commands and
.B put
commands issued without a specified remote target filename.
If arguments are specified, characters in
local filenames are translated during
.B mget
commands and
.B get
commands issued without a specified local target filename.
This command is useful when connecting to a non-UNIX remote computer
with different file naming conventions or practices.
Characters in a filename matching a character in
.I inchars
are replaced with the corresponding character in
.IR outchars .
If the character's position in
.I inchars
is longer than the length of
.IR outchars ,
the character is deleted from the file name.
.TP
\f5open\fP \fIhost\fP [ \fIport\fP ]
Establish a connection to the specified
.I host
FTP server.  An optional port number may be supplied,
in which case, 
.I ftp
will attempt to contact an FTP server at that port.
If the 
.I auto-login
option is on (default), 
.I ftp
will also attempt to automatically log the user in to
the FTP server (see below).
.TP
.B prompt
Toggle file-by-file prompting fo
.BR mget ,
.BR mput ,
and
.BR mdelete
(on by default).
.TP
\f5proxy\fP \fIftp-command\fP
Execute an ftp command on a secondary control connection.
This command allows simultaneous connection to two remote ftp
servers for transferring files between the two servers.
The first
.B proxy
command should be an
.BR open ,
to establish the secondary control connection.
Enter the command 
.L "proxy ?"
to see other commands executable on the
secondary connection.
The following commands behave differently when prefaced by
.BR proxy :
.B open
will not define new macros during the auto-login process,
.B close
will not erase existing macro definitions,
.B get
and
.B mget
transfer files from the host on the primary control connection
to the host on the secondary control connection, and
.BR put ,
.BR mput ,
and
.B append
transfer files from the host on the secondary control connection
to the host on the primary control connection.
.TP
\f5put\fP \fIlocal-file\fP [ \fIremote-file\fP ]
Store a local file on the remote machine.  If 
.I remote-file
is not specified, the local file name is used
after processing according to any
.I ntrans
or
.I nmap
settings.  File transfer uses the
current settings for
.IR type ,
.IR format ,
.IR mode ,
and
.IR structure .
.TP
.B pwd
Print the name of the current working directory on the remote
machine.
.TP
.B quit
A synonym for
.BR bye .
.TP
.BI quote " arg1 arg2 ..."
The arguments specified are sent, verbatim, to the remote FTP
server.
.TP
\f5recv\fP \fIremote-file\fP [ \fIlocal-file\fP ]
A synonym for get.
.TP
\f5remotehelp\fP [ \fIcommand-name\fP ]
Request help from the remote FTP server.  If a 
.I command-name
is specified it is supplied to the server as well.
.TP
\f5remotestatus\fP [ \fIfile-name\fP ]
With no arguments, show status of remote machine.
If
.I file-name
is specified, show status of
.I file-name
on the remote machine.
.TP
\f5rename\fP [ \fIfrom\fP ] [ \fIto\fP ]
Rename the file
.I from
on the remote machine, to the file
.IR to .
.TP
.B reset
Clear reply queue.
This command re-synchronizes command/reply sequencing with the remote
ftp server.
Resynchronization may be necessary following a violation of the ftp protocol
by the remote server.
.TP
.BI rmdir " directory-name"
Delete a directory on the remote machine.
.TP
.B runique
Toggle storing of files on the local system with unique filenames.
If the target of a
.B get
or
.B mget
command already exists locally, a 
.L .1
is appended to the name.
If that name, too, matches another existing file,
a
.L .2
is appended and so on until
.LR .99 ,
when the transfer is aborted.
Note that
.B runique
will not affect local files generated from a shell command
(see below).
The default value is off.
.TP
\f5send\fP \fIlocal-file\fP [ \fIremote-file\fP ]
A synonym for put.
.TP
.B sendport
Toggle the use of PORT commands.  By default, 
.I ftp
will attempt to use a PORT command when establishing
a connection for each data transfer.
The use of PORT commands can prevent delays
when performing multiple file transfers. If the PORT
command fails, 
.I ftp
will use the default data port.  When the use of PORT
commands is disabled, no attempt will be made to use
PORT commands for each data transfer.  This is useful
for certain FTP implementations which ignore PORT
commands but incorrectly indicate they've been accepted.
.TP
.BI size " file-name"
Return size of
.I file-name
on the remote machine.
.TP
.B status
Show the current status of
.IR ftp .
.TP
\f5struct\fP [ \fIstruct-name\fP ]
Set the file transfer
.I structure
to
.IR struct-name .
By default 
.L stream
structure is used.
.TP
.B sunique
Toggle storing of files on remote machine under unique file names.
Default value is off.
.TP
.B system
Show the type of operating system running on the remote machine.
.TP
.B tenex
Set the file transfer type to that needed to
talk to TENEX machines.
.TP
.B trace
Toggle packet tracing.
.TP
\f5type\fP [ \fItype-name\fP ]
Set the file transfer
.I type
to
.IR type-name .
If no type is specified, the current type
is printed.  The default type is network ASCII.
.TP
\f5user\fP \fIuser-name\fP [ \fIpassword\fP ] [ \fIaccount\fP ]
Identify yourself to the remote FTP server.  If the
password is not specified and the server requires it,
.I ftp
will prompt the user for it (after disabling local echo).
If an account field is not specified, and the FTP server
requires it, the user will be prompted for it.
If an account field is specified, an account command will
be relayed to the remote server after the login sequence
is completed if the remote server did not require it
for logging in.
Unless
.I ftp
is invoked with 
.L auto-login
disabled, this
process is done automatically on initial connection to
the FTP server.
.TP
.B verbose
Toggle verbose mode.  In verbose mode, all responses from
the FTP server are displayed to the user.  In addition,
if verbose is on, when a file transfer completes, statistics
regarding the efficiency of the transfer are reported.  By default,
verbose is on.
.TP
\f5?\fP [ \fIcommand\fP ]
A synonym for help.
.PP
Command arguments which have embedded spaces may be quoted with
quote 
.B \&" marks.
.SS "Aborting a file transfer
The signal processing in the research version of 
.I ftp
has been stripped out.  Aborts will generally close the connection.
.SS "File naming conventions
Files specified as arguments to
.I ftp
commands are processed according to the following rules.
.TP
1)
If the file name 
.L -
is specified,
.B stdin
(for reading) or
.B stdout
(for writing) is used.
.TP
2)
If the first character of the file name is 
.LR | ,
the remainder of the argument is interpreted as a shell command.
.I Ftp
reads the standard output of the command, or writes the 
standard input.
If the shell command includes spaces, it
must be quoted with double quotes.
A useful example of this mechanism is: 
.LR |more .
.TP
3)
Failing the above checks, if glob is enabled, 
local file names are expanded
according to the rules used in 
.IR csh (1);
c.f. the 
.I glob
command. 
If the
.I ftp
command expects a single local file (e.g.
.BR put ),
only the first filename generated by the globbing operation is used.
.TP
4)
For
.B mget
commands and
.B get
commands with unspecified local file names, the local filename is
the remote filename, subject to altering by
.BR case ,
.BR ntrans ,
or
.B nmap
setting.
The resulting filename may then be altered if
.B runique
is on.
.TP
5)
For
.B mput
commands and
.B put
commands with unspecified remote file names, the remote filename is
the local filename, subject to altering by
.B ntrans
or
.B nmap
setting.
The resulting filename may then be altered by the remote server if
.B sunique
is on.
.SS "File transfer parameters
The FTP specification specifies many parameters which may
affect a file transfer.  The 
.I type
may be one of 
.LR ascii ,
.LR image
(binary),
.LR ebcdic ,
and
.L local byte size
(for PDP-10's
and PDP-20's mostly).
.I Ftp
supports the ascii and image types of file transfer,
plus local byte size 8 for
.B tenex
mode transfers.
.PP
.I Ftp
supports only the default values for the remaining
file transfer parameters: 
.IR mode ,
.IR form ,
and
.IR struct .
.SS "Options
Options may be specified at the command line, or to the 
command interpreter.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.
Show all responses from the remote server, as well
as report on data transfer statistics.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not attempt
.L auto-login
upon initial connection.
If auto-login is enabled, 
.I ftp
will check the
.F .netrc
(see below) file in the user's home directory for an entry describing
an account on the remote machine.  If no entry exists,
.I ftp
will prompt for the remote machine login name (default is the user
identity on the local machine), and, if necessary, prompt for a password
and an account with which to login.
.TP
.B \-i
Do not prompt during
multiple file transfers.
.TP
.B \-d
Enable debugging.
.TP
.B \-g
Disables file name globbing.
.SS "The .netrc file
The
.F .netrc
file contains login and initialization information
used by the auto-login process.
It resides in the user's home directory.
The following tokens are recognized; they may be separated by spaces,
tabs, or new-lines:
.TP
\f5machine\fP \fIname\fP
Identify a remote machine name.
The auto-login process searches
.F .netrc
for a
.B machine
token that matches the remote machine specified on the
.I ftp
command line or as an
.B open
command argument.
Once a match is made, subsequent tokens are processed,
until end of file is reached or another
.B machine
or a
.B default
token is encountered.
.TP
.B default
This is the same as
.BI machine " name
except that 
.B default
matches any name.
There can be only one 
.B default
token, and it must be after all
.B machine
tokens.
This is normally used as:
.RS
.IP
.B
default login anonymous password user@site
.LP
thereby giving the user automatic anonymous ftp login to
machines not specified in 
.BR .netrc .
.RE
.TP
\f5login\fP \fIname\fP
Identify a user on the remote machine.
If this token is present, the auto-login process will initiate
a login using the specified name.
.TP
\f5password\fP \fIstring\fP
Supply a password.
If this token is present, the auto-login process will supply the
specified string if the remote server requires a password as part
of the login process.
If this token is present in 
.F .netrc
for any user other
than
.LR anonymous ,
and
.F .netrc
is readable by nonowners,
.I ftp
will abort auto-login.
.TP
\f5account\fP \fIstring\fP
Supply an additional account password.
If this token is present, auto-login supplies the
.I string
when the remote server demands an additional
account password; otherwise auto-login initiates an
ACCT command.
.TP
\f5macdef\fP \fIname\fP
Define a macro in the style of
.BR macdef .
If a macro named
.I init
is defined, it is automatically executed as the last step in
auto-login.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR ftpd (8)
.SH BUGS
Remote servers may not support all features documented here.
.br
Interrupts cause
.I ftp
to exit.
