.TH KILL 1
.CT 1 proc_man sa_mortals
.SH NAME
kill \(mi terminate a process with extreme prejudice
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kill
[
.BI - sig
]
.I processid ...
.br
.B kill
.B -l
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Kill
sends the
.L SIGTERM
signal to the specified processes.
If a signal name or number preceded by 
.L -
is given
as first argument, that signal is sent instead; see
.IR  signal (2).
The signal names are listed by
.LR "kill -l" ,
and are as given in
.BR <signal.h> .
.PP
The terminate signal
will kill processes that do not catch the signal.
The
.B SIGKILL
signal is a sure kill, since it cannot be caught.
By convention, if process number 0 is specified, all members
in the process group (usually processes of
the current login or current
.IR mux (9.1)
layer) are signaled.
Killed processes must belong
to the current user unless
that is super-user.
.PP
To shut the system down and bring it up single user
the super-user may send the initialization process a terminate
signal by
.LR "kill 1" ;
see
.IR init (8).
To force
.I init
to close and open terminals
according to what is currently in
.F /etc/ttys
use
.BR "kill -SIGHUP 1" .
.PP
The process number of an asynchronous process
started with 
.L &
is reported by the shell and by
.IR ps (1).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L
kill 7151
Kill process 7151 gently;
the process can catch the signal.
.TP
.L
kill -SIGKILL 7151
Kill peremptorily; this signal cannot be caught.
.TP
.L
kill 0
Kill all the background processes in this process group.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR ps (1), 
.IR signal (2), 
.IR signal (2), 
.IR init (8)
