.TH LANGS 1
.CT 1 prog_other
.SH NAME
altran, cospan, esterel, icon, lisp, macsyma, maple, ops5, pascal, ratfor, S, smp, sno, spitbol, struct, twig \- languages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B altran
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.br
.B cospan
[
.I option ...
]
file
.nf
.B esterel
.B iconc
.B icont
.B lisp
.B /usr/lbin/macsyma
.B maple
.B /usr/lbin/ops5
.fi
.B ratfor
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.br
.B S
.br
.B smp
.br
.B sno
[
.I file ...
]
.br
.B spitbol
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.br
.B struct
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.br
.B twig
[
.BI -w xx
]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Altran,
a language for rational algebra, is
described in W. S. Brown,
.I ALTRAN User's Manual.
For more information execute
.LR "man altran" .
.PP
.I Cospan,
a system which analyzes concurrent programs written in the data-flow
language S/R for properties defined by automata, is
described in
Z. Har'El and R. P. Kurshan,
.I COSPAN User's Guide,
1121-871009-21TM, AT&T Bell Laboratories, 1987.
For more information, execute
.LR "man cospan" .
.PP
.I Esterel
compiles single-process implementations of
programs expressed in terms of asynchronously cooperating
automata.
For more information, execute
.LR "man esterel" .
.PP
.I Icon,
a general-purpose language with
stream-based coroutines is described in R. E. Griswold,
.I The Icon Programming Language,
Prentice-Hall, 1983.
For more information, execute
.LR "man icont" .
.PP
.I Lisp,
the symbol manipulation language, is described in
J. K. Foderara,
`The Franz Lisp Manual', in
Unix Programmer's Manual, Seventh Edition, Virtual VAX-11 Version,
1980, Volume 2C
(Berkeley)
.PP
.I  Macsyma,
another symbolic algebra language,
is described in
.I Macsyma Reference Manual,
Laboratory for Computer Science, MIT, 1977.
It breaks if the environment contains shell functions.
.PP
.I Maple, 
a third symbolic algebra language,
is described in K. O. Geddes, G. H. Gonnet, and B. W. Char,
.I MAPLE User's Manual, Third Edition,
Research Report CS-83-41
Dept. of Computer Science, University of Waterloo, 1983.
For more information execute
.LR "man maple" .
.PP
.I Ops5
is a production-system interpreter
described in
C. L. Forgy
.IR "OPS5 User's Manual" ,
Department of Computer Science,
Carnegie-Mellon University,
July, 1981.
For more information execute
.LR "man ops5" .
.PP
.I Pascal
is an interpreter and
.I pc
is a compiler for the well known language.
For more information, type
.LR "man pascal pc pxp" .
.PP
.I Ratfor
accepts Fortran extended with C-like control
constructs and compiles into Fortran.
For more information execute
.LR "man ratfor" .
For a full description see B. W. Kernighan and P. J. Plauger,
.I Software Tools,
Addison-Wesley, 1976.
.PP
.I S,
a system for data analysis and graphics,
is described in
R. A. Becker, J. M. Chambers, and A. R. Wilks,
.I
The New S Language,
Wadsworth, 1988.
.PP
.I Smp,
a fourth symbolic algebra language,
is described in C. Cole and S. Wolfram,
.I SMP Handbook,
California Institute of Technology, 1981.
.PP
.I Sno
is a dialect of Snobol 3.
For more information execute
.LR "man sno" .
.PP
.I Spitbol
is a dialect of Snobol 4.
For more information execute
.LR "man spitbol" .
The full story is in
R. B. K. Dewar, A. P. McCann, R. E. Goldberg,
and S. G. Duff,
.I Macro SPITBOL Program Reference Manual,
and R. E. Griswold, J. F. Poage, and I. P. Polonsky,
.I The SNOBOL4 Programming Language
Academic Press, 1968.
.PP
.I Struct,
an inverse of 
.I ratfor,
deduces rational control structure from pure Fortran.
For more information execute
.LR "man struct" .
.PP
.I Twig
is a language for tree manipulation, 
useful for code generation and other applications.
For more information execute
.LR "man twig" .
See also S. W. K. Tjiang,
.I Twig Reference Manual,
AT&T Bell Laboratories Computing Science Technical Report 120.
.SH BUGS
These language processors are available on a haphazard
collection of machines. 
Many are maintained in the same spirit.
