.TH LCOMP 1
.CT 1 debug_tune
.SH NAME
lcomp, lprint \(mi line-by-line profiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lcomp
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.PP
.B lprint
[
.I option
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lcomp
is used in place of
.IR cc (1)
or
.IR f77 (1)
to insert instruction-counting code into programs.
It shares with those commands options
whose initial letters are taken from the string
.LR cwpDUIRdlNnz ,
and accepts files whose names end in
.BR .c ,
.BR .f ,
.BR .s ,
or
.BR .o .
From each source file it derives a 
.B .o
file and a
.B .sL
file which
.I lprint
uses to correlate source lines with basic blocks.
.PP
Option
.B -C
declares that
.B .c
files (and
.B .o
files, if no source files are named)
are C++ files.
If the
.B -c
option is not present
.I lcomp
creates
.FR a.out .
Each time
.F a.out
is run statistics are added
to a profiling file
.FR prof.out .
.PP
.I Lprint
produces on the standard output a listing (in the style of
.IR pr (1))
of the programs compiled by
.I lcomp.
Without arguments or files,
each line of the listing is preceded by the number of times it was executed,
as determined from the data in
.FR prof.out .
.I Lprint
interprets the following options.
.TP
.B -a
Detailed listing of every machine instruction and how often it was executed.
.TP
.B -b
How often each basic block was executed.
.TP
.B -c
Compress the
.F prof.out
file, which otherwise grows with every execution of
.LR a.out .
.TP
.B -f
Print summary information by function: instruction executions, number of
invocations, source instructions, and number of instructions never executed.
.TP
.B -i
Before each line of source print the number of machine instructions executed.
.TP
.B -p
Before each line of source print the number of times the first basic block
in that line was executed.
.TP
.B -s
Summarize the counts by source file: instruction executions, source
instructions, instructions never executed, basic block executions, total
number of source basic blocks, and how many were never executed.
.PP
If any file names are given, the options
.L abip
apply only to them.
If no options are given,
.B -p
is assumed.
Any combination of options is allowed.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/nexit.o	
.TP
.F prof.out
counts
.TP
.F *.sL
for correlating with source
.TP
.F /usr/lib/bb
for finding basic blocks and inserting counting code
.TP
.F /usr/lib/nexit.o
for printing counts when
.L a.out
exits
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR cc (1), 
.IR f77 (1),
.IR prof (1)
.SH BUGS
A line in the source file may be in zero, one, or more basic
blocks;
the count given in the listing corresponds to some particular
choice of the basic block to associate with the line.
.br
Processing the output of
.IR yacc (1)
without removing
.L #line
directives will produce unsatisfactory results.
.br
Option
.B -C
masks an option of
.IR cc (1).
