.TH LIBRARY 1
.SH NAME
library \- send information requests to appropriate organization
.PD
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B library [-1234567] [request string]
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I library
sends document/information requests to the
appropriate organization within the Library Network.
It also handles a variety of requests for other AT&T organizations
(e.g., Engineering Information Services).
It requires the user to discriminate between seven classes of requests
as indicated by the menu it displays:
.sp
.nf
1)  Order by number - this includes nearly everything announced
	by the AT&T Library Network (e.g. TMs, bulletin items) or handled
	by the Engineering Information Services (e.g. J docs, CPSs).
2)  Order item not announced by the AT&T Library Network. Available:
	 Buy a copy of a book; Address labels; Technical Reports; 
	 Internal document by date (id unknown); Photocopies; 
	 Subscribe to a journal; foreign language services.
3)  Subscribe or unsubscribe to a bulletin (e.g. Mercury, CTP)
4)  Submit a database search. Examples of available databases:
	book catalog, internal documents, AT&T personnel, released papers
5)  Request human assistance / interaction. Type(s) available:
	 General AT&T Library Network assistance; Reference question.
6)  Request AT&T Library Network information/services. Examples:
	LINUS info, products/services descriptions, loan/reserve status
7)  Read AT&T Library Network email transmissions

.fi
Note that the first class includes anything announced by the Library Network operated by AT&T Bell Laboratories.  
.PP
The main menu level of 
.I library 
can be skipped by giving
the number of the desired option (1 - 7)
as the first parameter to the
\f2library\f1.
.PP
The secondary menu levels in
.I library
(presently in options 2, 4, 5 and 6)
can be bypassed by selecting the desired option as the second
parameter.
For example, to do order a photocopy, use the
command
.ce
library -2 -p
.PP
Similarly, if you want to do a search of the personnel database,
you can do the command line
.ce
library -4 -p waldstein, r k
.PP
Requests for objects that can be meaningfully described with one
line can be entered on the command line.
This includes the things orderable by options 1, 3, 4, and 6.
Note that library tries in this case to function with a minimum
of interaction.
For example, if you request a TM this way,
you will not be given a chance to enter remarks connected with the request.
.PP
When permitted, the command line requests can include more than one item
(presently only options 1 and 3 support this).
An example command line is
.ce
library -1 123456-851234-56tm  5d123 ad-123456 
.PP
In options 2, 5, and 6,
.I library
will prompt for a variety of information of varying complexity.
A period (.) at any point in this session will delete the 
request being entered.
Blank lines (just hit return) will cause optional information to
be left out of the request.
A line consisting of tilde e (\~e) will, when a long response is 
permitted, put you into an editor.
This editor defaults to ed(1).
However, if the environment variable EDITOR is set, the specified
editor is used.
A line consisting of tilde r (\~r) will, when a long response is 
permitted, read in the indicated file.
.PP
Option 7 is a misfit, in that it is primarily a reader, not a
request transmitter; although it does allow requesting items.
This option is intended for reading electronic transmissions
from the library network: primarily responses to option 4 search
requests and ASAP (specialized searches like electronic Mercury).
A convenient way to use option 7 is to invoke it via a pipe
from mail(1), mailx(1) or post(1).
.ce
 | 3 "library -7"
This assumes that mail message 3 consists of a search result.
The quote marks are required due to post(1) and mailx(1) syntax.
.PP
Break causes 
.I library
to exit
without sending any requests.
.PP
In general for more information about what the library command can
do, go into each option and enter a question mark.
This will cause a description of how the option works and
what it can request.
.PP
Several other pieces of information can be passed
to
.I library
to ease and improve its usage.
This information is looked up in a file called .lib (or the file indicated
by the LIBFILE shell variable).
It expects this file to contain lines of the form:
.sp
.ti 10
ID: \f2individual's PAN or Social Security Number\f1
.ti 10
libname: \f2individual's last name\f1
.ti 10
liblog: \f2name of log file\f1
.ti 10
libcntl: \f2control information\f1
.ti 10
reader: \f2reader control information\f1
.ti 10
liblocal: \f2control information\f1
.PP
If this file is not found or lines of this form are not found,
then 
.I library
prompts for name and ID (PAN or SS#).
.PP
This information can also be passed to 
.I library
as the shell parameters: LIBID, LIBNAME, LIBLOG, LIBCNTL, and LIBLOCAL.
.PP
.I library
keeps a log of requests sent via library if a line in the .lib
file exists giving a log file name, i.e., if you have in
your .lib file a line of the form
.ce
liblog: \f2name of log file\f1
.PP
.I library
keeps a log of requests in that file.
This file is created in a form that can be read and manipulated
by the 
.I mail
command.
To read or modify the log file, type
.ce
mail -f \f2name of log file\f1
.PP
.I library
creates the log file in your HOME directory unless the file name
given starts with a slash (/).
.I library
will automatically check option 1 requests
for duplicates in the log file.
.PP
The libcntl information is sent with the request to the program
that receives the requests for the library networks.
Control information containing the letter ``a''
will cause an acknowledgement to be mailed back to you that
your request has been received.
Control information of the form ``m\f2number\f1''will determine the
maximum number of items retrieved by a search request.
For example, a control line of the form
.sp
.ce
libcntl: am100
.PP
will cause requests to be acknowledged and a maximum of 100 retrieved
search items to be mailed back to you.
.PP
The reader control information is intended to let you personalize
the way
.I library
option 7 works for you.
Each letter after the colon indicates a different option turned
on or off.
Presently available are the following:
.RS
.TP 5
b
causes library -7 to leave a
blank line between records when more than one is displayed on the screen.
.TP 5
c
causes 
.I library
to confirm that you want the entered requests transmitted.
It does this at the end of the session, before finishing.
.TP 5
n
is an interesting features causing no introductory menu
of available announcements to be displayed.
The reader then goes straight into the first announcement to be read,
and moves directly from one announcement to the next, without
displaying the menu of those available at each stage.
.RE
.PP
The liblocal information is used to control the execution of 
.I library.
Presently the only meaningful control is \f2x\fP.
This causes library(1) to assume you are an expert and the
prompts are generally much shorter.
.PP
.I library
also uses your .lib file to save various repetitious responses
for its own use.
These will prevent you from having to duplicate responses.
.PD
.SH BUGS
.I library
checks upon input whether the request is reasonable.
New styles of request numbers require program modification
before they are valid.
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 15
$HOME/.lib
This optional file contains a PAN and name for
.I library
to use.
.TP 15
/usr/lib/library/library.help
The help message displayed by library.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mail(1), post(1), mailx(1)
.\"	@(#)library.1	1.12  11/26/90 RnD added
