.TH MKDIST 1
.SH NAME
mkdist, insdist \(em make and install distribution packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft CW
/usr/lib/dist/mkdist [-v] [-D \fIold\fP=\fInew\fP] [-[Xx] \fIcommand\fP] \fIfiles ...\fP
.sp
/usr/lib/dist/insdist [-v] [-D \fIold\fP=\fInew\fP] [-R \fIrootdir\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mkdist
packages the named files into a distribution package on the standard output.
A distribution package is an ordinary
.IR tar (1)
file, containing the files of the package as well as installation information
for use by
.IR insdist .
.PP
The
.B -D
option to both
.I mkdist
and
.I insdist
allows prefix substitution to be performed on pathnames going into the
distribution.  (\c
.I Mkdist
arranges for all file names in the distribution to be absolute path names,
by prepending the current directory to any relative pathname arguments.)
At most one
.B -D
option will be applied to any name in the distribution, so there are no
substitution loops.  If multiple
.B -D
options might match a given file name, the leftmost one from the command
line is chosen.
The
.B -R
option (\c
.I insdist
only) additionally specifies that all files are to be unpacked relative
to the given root directory.
.PP
The
.B -X
and
.B -x
options to
.I mkdist
allow a command to be given that will be executed
when the distribution is unpacked by
.I insdist .
These options are identical, except that pathname prefix substitution from
.B -D
options will be applied to a command specified in a
.B -X
option.
.PP
The
.B -v
option turns on verbose output describing what's going on.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tar (1)
.SH BUGS
The
.B -v
option should show more.
