.TH PACK 1
.CT 1 files
.SH NAME
pack, unpack, pcat, compress, uncompress, zcat \(mi compress and expand files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pack
[
.B -
]
.I file ...
.PP
.B unpack
.I file ...
.PP
.B pcat
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B compress
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B uncompress
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B zcat
[
.B -V
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pack
attempts to compress the
.I files
and places the results in
corresponding files named
.IB file .z
with the same access modes, dates, and owner as the originals.
Successfully packed files are removed.
.PP
.I Unpack
reverses the process.
.PP
.I Pcat
unpacks files to the standard output.
.PP
The
.B .z
suffix may be omitted from the name of the
input file for
.I unpack
or
.I pcat.
.PP
.I Pack
encodes individual characters in a Huffman code.
Option
.B -
causes statistics of the encoding to be printed.
The option toggles on and off at each appearance among the
list of
.I files.
.PP
.I Compress, uncompress,
and
.I zcat
work like
.I pack, unpack,
and
.I pcat,
putting each compressed
.I file
into
.IB file .Z .
The options are
.TP
.B -f
(force)
Compress even when it doesn't save space.
.TP
.B -c
Write to the standard output; change no files.
.I Zcat
is identical to
.I uncompress
.B -c.
.TP
.BI -b bits
.I Compress
uses a modified Lempel-Ziv encoding.
Common substrings in the file are replaced by
variable-length codes up to size
.I bits
(default 16).
Smaller limits devour less address space.
.TP
.B -v
Print percent reduction for each file.
.TP
.B -V
Print program version number.
.PP
.I Compress-uncompress
pack better and are faster overall;
.I pack-unpack
work on smaller machines and are much more widely available.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
T. A. Welch,
`A Technique for High Performance Data Compression,'
.I "IEEE Computer,"
17 (1984) 8-19.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The exit code of
.I pack, unpack,
or
.I pcat
is the number of files it failed to process.
.PP
The exit code of
.I compress, uncompress,
or
.I zcat
is 0 normally, 1 for error, 2 for ineffective compression
(i.e. expansion).
