.TH PS 1
.CT 1 proc_man sa_mortals
.SH NAME
ps \(mi process status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ps
.I option
\&...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ps
prints information about processes.
.PP
For each process reported,
the process id,
control terminal,
status,
cpu time,
and command name are printed.
Status is at least one of the following letters:
.TP
.PD 0
.B R
Runnable.
.TP
.B S
Asleep for less than 20 seconds.
.TP
.B I
Asleep for 20 seconds or more.
.TP
.B P
Waiting for memory to be paged in.
.TP
.B T
Stopped by a debugger.
.TP
.B W
Swapped out of memory.
.TP
.B N
Positive scheduling priority;
see
.IR nice (2).
.PD
.PP
These options modify the report for each process:
.TP
.B f
Print additional lines listing each open file in use by the process.
.PD 0
.TP
.B ff
Print open files,
but omit the process id at the beginning of each line.
.TP
.B h
Print column headers.
.TP
.B l
Also print virtual size and current resident size in kilobytes,
parent process id,
and wait channel.
.TP
.B n
Don't sort the output.
.TP
.B u
Also print effective userid
and recent cpu share;
sort by cpu share
rather than by process id.
.PD
.PP
By default,
processes running under the current real userid
that don't appear to be shells
are reported.
These options pick different processes:
.TP
.B a
Report processes running under any userid.
.PD 0
.TP
.BI F file
Report processes using the named
.IR file .
.TP
.B r
Report processes with real or effective userid
matching the current real userid.
.TP
.BI t s
Report processes with controlling terminal
.IR s .
.I S
may be
.L .
(the current controlling terminal)
or one of the abbreviations printed by
.IR ps ,
e.g.
.L 03
for
.FR /dev/tty03 ,
.L dk26
for
.FR /dev/dk/dk26 ,
or
.L ?
for processes with no control terminal.
.TP
.B x
Include processes that appear to be shells.
.TP
.I num
Report the process with process id
.IR num .
.PD
.PP
Multiple
.BR F ", " t ", and"
.I num
options are allowed; the union of all selections is printed.
.PP
By default,
.I ps
looks for process data in the process file system
.IR proc (4),
but reads
.F /dev/drum
for information about swapped processes
(to avoid swapping them in just to look at them)
and
.F /dev/kmem
for information about open files.
These options cause it to gather information differently:
.TP
.B o
.PD 0
Ignore
.IR proc (4);
read directly from
.F /dev/mem
and the swap area.
Useful mostly in single-user mode
or when examining a crash dump.
.TP
.BI M mem
Read memory data from
.IR mem
instead of
.F /dev/mem
or
.FR /dev/kmem .
.TP
.BI D swap
Read swap data from
.I swap
instead of
.FR /dev/drum .
.TP
.BI Nname
Read symbols from
.I name
instead of
.FR /unix .
This matters only under
option
.BR o .
.PD
.PP
To examine a crash dump,
use
.BI "ps oM" dumpfile.
Option
.B M
changes the default swap device to
.FR /dev/null .
.SH FILES
.TF /lib/ttydevs
.TP
.F /proc
process images
.TP
.F /dev/drum
swap device
.TP
.F /dev/kmem
kernel memory
.TP
.F /dev/mem
physical memory
.TP
.F /lib/ttydevs
searched to find tty names
.TP
.F /etc/fstab
searched to find local file system names
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR kill (1), 
.IR proc (4), 
.IR load (1),
.IR pstat (8)
.SH BUGS
Things can change while
.I ps
is running.
.br
Since
.I ps
is usually set-userid,
filename arguments like that to
.L -M
are potential security botches.
