.TH PSIFILE 1
.CT 1 writing_output
.SH NAME
psifile, mhssend\- postscript interpreter/fax sender
.lg 0
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B psifile
[
.I option ...
] [
.I file
]
.br
.B mhssend
.I phone_number
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Psifile
reads Postscript input from
.I file
or from standard input
and produces a file containing an image of the page.
The format of the output file is specified by the following options:
.TF /make/it
.TP
.B -fax
runs at 200 dpi and produces g31 fax in the multipage fax format called
.BR mhs ,
putting its output in file
.B fax\fI$$\fP.mhs
by default. If a phone number is supplied,
the output file is pushed to
.B /tmp
on fama
and
.B mhssend
is run to send the fax.
.TP
.BI -P " phone_no"
specifies the destination phone number for
.BR -fax .
.TP
.B -g4
runs at 300 dpi and produces a fax g4 file called
.B psi.out.g4
by default that
can be displayed on the gnots with
.IR rbits .
.TP
.B -bm
produces
.IR bitfile (9.5)
output in file
.B psi.out
by default.
.I -bm
is useful for debugging postscript programs because
it has better diagnostics than the printers.
.PP
Other options are
.TF /this/is
.TP
.B -s
assumes the file is in
.B mhs
format and sends it to the phone number provided with
.B -P
above.
.TP
.BI -o " name"
use
.I name
as the basename of the output file.
.TP
.BI -p " page"
only output postscript page number
.I page
as determined by
.B %%Page
comments in the file.
.sp
.PP
Fonts are implemented with 24 point bitmap fonts.
Those available are
Symbol, Courier, Times-Roman, Times-Italic, Times-Bold, Times-BoldItalic, Helvetica,
Helvetica-Oblique, Helvetica-Bold, Helvetica-BoldOblique.
Fonts
Courier-Bold,
Courier-Oblique,
and
Courier-BoldOblique
are mapped to
Courier.
Postscript type 1 fonts are implemented and work if supplied
with the input.
.sp
.PP
For best results with TeX documents, run
.B dvips
with the
.B -Tfax
or
.B "-D 200"
option to get fonts of the proper resolution.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L
troff -ms memo | lp -dstdout -H | psifile -fax -P 4223
.br
.TP
.L
troff -ms memo | dpost | psifile -fax -P 4223
Two equivalent ways to format a memo, convert it to PostScript,
and produce a fax file.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/psi/psifaxg4
.TP
.F fax\fI$$\fP.mhs
default
.B -fax
output file
.TP
.F psi.out.g4
default
.B -g4
output file
.TP
.F psi.out
default
.B -bm
output file
.TP
.B /usr/lib/psi/psifax
postscript\->mhs format program
.TP
.B /usr/lib/psi/psifaxg4
postscript\->fax g4 program
.TP
.B /usr/lib/psi/psibm
postscript\->bitfile program
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR psi (9.1),
.IR lp (1),
.IR dvips (1),
.IR postscript (8),
.IR proof (9.1) ,
.IR bcp (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Symbols that lack bitmaps are replaced by `?'
and an error is reported.
.SH BUGS
Unimplemented PostScript features are rotated images
and half tone screens.
Imagemasks may only be rotated by multiples of 90 degrees,
not by arbitrary angles.
