.TH SIGN 1 
.CT 1 comm_term sa_mortals secur
.SH NAME
sign, verify, enroll, resign \(mi document certification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sign
[
.B -n
.I name
] [
.I file
]
.PP
.B verify
[
.B -s
] [
.I file
]
.PP
.B enroll
.PP
.B resign
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines
provide a document-certification service.
.PP
.I Sign
reads a document from the
.I file
or from the standard input, demands a signing password
for the current login id,
and places on standard 
output a signed and dated copy of the document,
with a cryptographic certificate attached.
The resulting document can be embedded in a larger one.
The option is
.TP
.BI -n " name
Set the signing name; its password will be demanded.
.PP
.I Verify
scans the
.I file
or the standard input for a certified document.
If the document and date are as they were when certified,
except possibly indented,
the verified document is placed on the standard output
with a statement of verification attached.
The option is
.TP
.B -s
Do not print the document; place only a statement of
verification on the standard output.
.PP
The signer of a document must be registered with the
certification service; the recipient need not be.
Two commands handle registration:
.PP
.I Enroll
demands a signing password and registers it for the current
login id.
It is unwise to use your login password.
.PP
.I Resign
demands the signing password and, if it is correct,
terminates the registration for the current login id.
.PP
A signed document and its date are tamperproof
and thus are good for ordinary business purposes.
The mere appearance of a certificate, however, is not proof
of authenticity.  That can be determined only by
.I verify.
The output of
.I verify
lacks a
certificate; its authenticity cannot be attested at a later date.
.PP
There is no notion of an `original' signed document;
all copies are equally good and may be reverified at will.
.PP
Signers must trust 
.I sign
and recipients must trust
.I verify
not to have been tampered with on their respective machines.
Both parties must trust the verification
service, which is on a separate secure machine,
and the communication channels to it.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B sign <doc.raw >doc.cert
.TP
.B verify <doc.suspect >doc.checked
.TP
.B sign <letter | mail whomever
The recipient can verify the letter from within
.IR mail (1)
by using
.I mail's
pipe command:
.LR |verify .
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR notary (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Verify
yields exit status 0 only on successful verification.
.PP
`Bogus' \- the document has been tampered with, or the
original password is no longer registered.
.SH BUGS
Only one user with a given login name may be registered;
thus the certification service cannot be extended too
far.
.br
To minimize dependence on the certification service,
no password check is made at signing.  A mistyped password
will not show up until verification.
