.TH STTY 1
.CT 1 comm_term
.SH NAME
stty \- set terminal options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stty
[
.I option ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Stty
sets certain I/O options for the terminal open on
.F /dev/tty
(file descriptor 3).
With no argument, it reports the current settings of the options.
The options are:
.TP 10n
.B even
Allow even parity.
.PD 0
.TP
.B -even
Disallow even parity.
.TP
.B odd
Allow odd parity.
.TP
.B -odd
Disallow odd parity.
.TP
.B raw
Raw mode input:
no erase, kill, interrupt, quit, EOT;
parity bit passed to processes.
.TP
.B -raw
Turn off raw mode.
.TP
.B 8bit
Eight-bit mode:
don't strip parity in the device driver.
.TP
.B -8bit
Turn off eight-bit mode.
.TP
.B cooked
Same as
.LR -raw .
.TP
.B cbreak
Make each character available to
.IR read (2)
as received; no erase and kill.
.TP
.B -cbreak
Make characters available to
.I read
only when newline is received.
.TP
.B -nl
Allow carriage return for new-line,
and output CR-LF for carriage return or new-line.
.TP
.B nl
Accept only new-line to end lines.
.TP
.B echo
Echo back every character typed.
.TP
.B -echo
Turn off echo.
.TP
.B lcase
Map upper case to lower case.
.TP
.B -lcase
Preserve case.
.TP
.B -tabs
Replace tabs by spaces when printing.
.TP
.B tabs
Preserve tabs.
.TP
.B ek
Reset erase and kill characters to traditional backspace
.BR @ .
.TP
.BI erase  \ c
Set erase character to
.I c
(initially  backspace).
In this and other character-setting options
a 
.L ^
may precede
.I c
to signify
.RI control- c.
.TP
.BI kill  \ c
Set kill character to
.I c
(initially 
.BR @ ).
.TP
.BI intr " c"
Set interrupt character to
.I c
(initially DEL).
.TP
.BI quit " c"
Set quit character to
.I c
(initially 
.RB control- \e ).
.TP
.BI stop " c"
Set stop character to
.I c
(initially 
.RB control- S ).
.TP
.BI start " c"
Set start character to
.I c
(initially
.RB control- Q ).
.TP
.BI eof " c"
Set `end of file' character to
.I c
(initially
.RB control- D ).
.TP
.BI brk " c"
Set `line-break' character to
.I c
(initially undefined).
.TP
.B  cr0 cr1 cr2 cr3
.br
Select style of delay for carriage return; see
.IR ioctl (2).
.TP
.B  nl0 nl1 nl2 nl3
.br
Select style of delay for linefeed.
.TP
.B  tab0 tab1 tab2 tab3
.br
Select style of delay for tab.
.TP
.B  ff0 ff1
Select style of delay for form feed.
.TP
.B bs0 bs1
Select style of delay for backspace.
.TP
.B hup
Hang up on last close.
.TP
.B 0
Hang up immediately.
.TP
.B  "50 75 110 134 150 200 300 600 1200 1800 2400 4800 9600 exta extb"
.br
Set terminal baud rate to the number given, if possible.
.TP
.B old
Arrange to use normal teletype line discipline,
.IR ttyld (4).
.TP
.B old!
Force normal teletype line discipline,
even if no teletype driver was present.
.TP
.B notty
Remove the top-level teletype driver.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR ttyld (4), 
.IR ioctl (2), 
.IR tabs (1)
