.TH TDC 1
.SH NAME
tdc \- fill out TDC form
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tdc
.PP
.B tdc
[
.B -b
]
.PP
.B tdc
.I bill-info
[
.I card-info
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command will prepare a PostScript job that will produce
a standard Telephone Discount Concession form (ATT363) when printed.
With no arguments it simply gives usage information on the standard
error output.  Option
.B -b
causes PostScript for a blank form to be generated.  To have the
form filled in,
.I bill-info
and, optionally,
.I card-info
should be supplied.  Each of these consists of five arguments, with
the first set corresponding to the telephone bill and the second set
corresponding to AT&T Universal Card calls.  The five arguments are
as follows, and must appear in the order shown:
.TP
.I month
Billing month for the bill.  This can be a month abbreviation or
a month number.  There is not room on the form for the full month
name.
.TP
.I day 
Billing day for the bill.
.TP
.I year
Billing year for the bill.
.TP
.I amount
Total Inter-LATA Toll Charges, including taxes (note that this is
not quite the same as section 1 of the form\(emit's just the total
amount as it appears on the bill).
.TP
.I exclusions
Total non-eligible charges as defined in section 2 of the form.  The
simplest way to compute this is to add the actual charges for all
ineligible calls.
.PP
By default, the information for filling in the form is gleaned from 
the file
.B $HOME/.tdc.
If this file does not exist,
.B tdc
will prompt you for the name of an alternate
.B tdc
profile residing in your $HOME directory.
This profile should consist of a number of lines, each giving one
piece of information for the form.  The format of the lines is
an item name followed by the information.  The names and the
expected information are:
.TP
.B firstname
Your first name.
.TP
.B homephone
Your home phone number (the one for which you are vouchering
the calls).  The format is three numbers, giving area code,
exchange and line number, with no extra characters like parenthesis
or dashes.
.TP
.B last8cardno
The last 8 digits of your AT&T Universal Card number.
.TP
.B lastname
Your last name.
.TP
.B middleinitial
Your middle initial.
.TP
.B officephone
Your office phone number; see the description of
.B homephone
for the format of this entry.
.TP
.B payment
How you are paid.  This can be
.B weekly,
.B bi-weekly,
or
.B monthly
(the default).
.TP
.B program
The program you are in (see item 6 of the form).  The possibilities are
.B management
(the default),
.B occupational1,
or
.B occupational2.
.TP
.B ssnumber
Your Social Security number, with internal dashes,
.B xxx-xx-xxxx .
.TP
.B title
Your title.  The default is
.B MTS.
.PP
Some of these have default values, as indicated.  The others will
not appear on the form if you don't specify them.  In addition to
these values there are five others that are location-specific whose
default values are built into
.B tdc
but which may be overridden in
.B $HOME/.tdc.
These values are:
.TP
.B location1
.TP
.B location2
.TP
.B location3
Three lines of address information for your BL location.
.TP
.B paycode
Your Payroll Unit Code Number.
.TP
.B tax
The tax rate (as a percentage) used on your phone bill.  In New Jersey
this is 9 (for 9%).
.SH EXAMPLES
If you prepare TDC forms for more than one person, you should 
keep each person's data in separate 
.B .tdc
files.
For example, one file might be called 
.B $HOME/.tdcSmith,
and another might be called 
.B $HOME/.tdcJones.
Then, if
.B tdc
cannot find 
.B $HOME/.tdc,
it will prompt for the profile to be used:
.IP
.EX
Enter profile suffix: Smith
.EE
.PP
A typical
.B .tdc
file might look like this:
.IP
.EX
firstname Joe
middleinitial Q.
lastname Schlabotnik
ssnumber 123-45-6789
officephone 908 582 0000
homephone 908 999 0000
.EE
.PP
If you are paid weekly and are in the second occupational category of
part 6 of the form, you would add these two lines:
.IP
.EX
payment weekly
program occupational2
.EE
.PP
A typical usage of
.B tdc
might be:
.IP
.EX
tdc Dec 26 1992 134.28 15.44 | lp
.EE
.SH FILES
.B $HOME/.tdc*		tdc data profiles
