.TH TR2TEX 1 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
tr2tex \- convert a document from troff to latex
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tr2tex
[
.B -m
]
.I file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tr2tex
attempts to convert into
.IR latex (6)
form a document contained in
.I files
written in
.IR troff (1)
with
.IR ms (6)
macros,
.IR eqn (1)
equations, and some simple
.IR tbl (1)
specifications.
The result is placed on standard output.
There is one option.
.TP
.B -m
Convert the document from
.IR man (6)
form to
.IR latex (6).
.PP
The output may need some hand polishing.
.I Troff
requests that cannot be converted are left
as comments.
Some of the converted document may be in plain TeX.
.SH FILES
.HP
.F /usr/lib/tex/troffms.sty
.IR tex (1)
macros into which some
.I troff
constructs convert.
.br
.ns
.PP
.F /usr/lib/tex/troffman.sty
.SH BUGS
Option
.B -m
does not work with 10th edition
.I man
macros.
.br
Commands that are not separated from their argument by a space are
not properly parsed (e.g.
.BR .sp3i ).
.br
.I Eqn
operators
.L rpile
and 
.L lpile
are treated as
.LR cpile ,
.L rcol
and
.L lcol
as
.LR ccol .
.br
.I Eqn
operators
.LR size ,
.LR gsize ,
.LR fat ,
.LR gfont ,
.LR mark ,
and
.LR lineup
are ignored.
.br
The closing member of a naturally bracketing pair of
.I troff
requests, such as
.BR .nf - .fi 
or
.BR ".ft I" - ".ft R",
is not supplied automatically after each paragraph.
.br
When local motions are converted to
.L \eraise
or
.LR \elower ,
an
.L \ehbox
must be supplied manually.
.br
The
.I eqn
expression
.L "a sub i sub j
is misconverted; use 
.L "a sub { i sub j }
instead.
.br
Line spacing cannot be changed within a paragraph.
.br
Number registers cannot be accessed via
.BR .nr .
.br
Redefinition of some
.I eqn
operators, such as
.LR over ,
.LR sub ,
or
.LR sup ,
will cause trouble.
.SH AUTHOR
Kamal Al-Yahya, Stanford University
