.TH TROFF 1
.CT 1 writing_troff
.SH NAME
troff, nroff \- text formatting and typesetting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B troff
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B nroff
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Troff
formats text in the named
.I files
for
printing on a phototypesetter;
.I nroff
for typewriter-like devices.
Their capabilities are described in the references.
.PP
If no
.I file
argument is present, the standard input is read.
An argument consisting of a single minus
.RB ( - )
is taken to be
a file name corresponding to the standard input.
The options, which may appear in any order so long as they appear
before the files, are:
.nr xx \w'\f5-m\f2name\ \ '
.TP \n(xxu
.BI -o list
Print pages in the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.
A range
.IB N - M
means 
.I N
through
.IR M ;
initial
.BI - M
means up to
.I M;
final
.IB N -
means from
.I N
to the end.
.TP
.BI -n N
Number first generated page
.IR N .
.TP
.BI -m name
Prepend the macro file
.BI /usr/lib/tmac/tmac. name
to the input
.IR files .
.TP
.BI -r aN
Set register
.I a
(one character name) to
.IR N .
.TP
.B -i
Read standard input after the input files are exhausted.
.TP
.B -q
Invoke the simultaneous input-output mode of the
.B rd
request.
.TP
.B -z
produce no output: diagnostics and
.B .tm
messages only
.SS Troff only
.TP \n(xxu
.B -a
Send a printable
.SM ASCII 
approximation
of the results to the standard output.
.TP
.BI -T dest
Prepare output for typesetter
.IR dest :
.br
.ns
.RS
.TP \w'\fL-Tpost\ 'u
.B -Tpost
Apple LaserWriter and other PostScript printers (default)
.PD0
.TP
.B -T202
Mergenthaler Linotron 202 
.TP
.B -Taps
Autologic APS-5
.RE
.PD
.TP "\w'\f5-m\f2name 'u"
.BI -F dir
Take font information from directory
.I dir.
.SS Nroff only
.TP \n(xxu
.BI -s N
Halt prior to every
.I N
pages (default
.IR N =1)
to allow paper loading or changing.
.TP
.BI -T name
Prepare output for specified terminal.
Known
.I names
include
.B 37
for the (default)
Teletype model 37,
.B lp
(`line-printer')
for any terminal without half-line capability,
.B 450
for the \s-1DASI\s+1-450
(Diablo Hyterm),
and
.B think
(HP ThinkJet, see
.IR thinkblt (9.1)).
.TP
.B -e
Produce equally-spaced words in adjusted
lines, using full terminal resolution.
.TP
.B -h
Use output tabs during horizontal spacing
to speed output and reduce output character count.
Tab settings are assumed to be every
8 nominal character widths.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*
.TP
.F /tmp/trtmp*
temporary file
.TP
.F /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*
standard macro files
.TP
.F /usr/lib/term/*
terminal driving tables for
.I nroff
.TP
.F /usr/lib/font/*
font width tables for
.I troff
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR lp (1),
.IR d202 (A), 
.IR proof (9.1), 
.IR apsend (1), 
.IR reader (9.7)
.br
.IR eqn (1), 
.IR tbl (1), 
.IR prefer (1),
.IR pic (1), 
.IR ideal (1), 
.IR grap (1),
.IR dag (1),
.IR cip (9.1),
.IR ped (9.1)
.br
.IR doctype (1), 
.IR ms (6),
.IR mpm (6),
.IR mbits (6),
.IR mpictures (6),
.IR mcs (6),
.IR font (5),
.IR monk (1),
.IR tex (1)
.br
J. F. Ossanna and B. W. Kernighan,
`Nroff/Troff User's Manual', 
this manual, Volume 2
.br
B. W. Kernighan,
`A TROFF Tutorial',
.I ibid.
