.\"@(#)uucp.1c	5.2
.TH UUCP 1
.CT 1 comm_mach
.SH NAME
uucp, uulog, uuname \- unix-to-unix remote file copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uucp
[
.I options ...
]
.I source ... destination
.PP
.B uulog
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I system
]
.PP
.B uuname
[
.B -l
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uucp\^
copies
.I source
files to the
.I destination
file or directory.
A file name may be an ordinary path name, or may
have the form:
.IP
.IB system-name ! filename
.PP
where
.I system-name\^
is a computer that
.I uucp\^
knows about.
.PP
Quoted shell metacharacters
.BR ? ,
.B \(**
and
.B [ ]
appearing in a remote
.I filename
will be expanded on the remote system.
.PP
Path names may be:
.TP
(1)
a full path name;
.TP
(2)
a path name preceded by
.BI ~ user /
where
.I user\^
is a login name on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's login directory;
.TP
(3)
a path name preceded by
.BI ~/ destination\^
where
.B ~
stands for
.FR /usr/spool/uucppublic .
The destination will be treated as a file name unless
more than one file is being transferred by this request,
the destination is already a directory,
or the destination ends with 
.LR / .
For example,
.L ~/dan/
as the destination will make the directory
.L /usr/spool/uucppublic/dan
if it does not exist, and put the requested file(s)
in that directory.
.TP
(4)
anything else is prefixed by the current directory.
.PP
If the result is an erroneous path name for the remote system
the copy will fail.
If the
.I destination\^
is a directory, the basename of the
.I filename
is used.
.ig
If a simple
.I ~user\^
destination is inaccessible to
.IR uucp ,
data is copied to a spool directory and the user
is notified by
.IR mail (1).
..
.I Uucp\^
preserves execute permissions across the transmission
and gives 0666 read and write permissions (see
.IR chmod (2)).
.PP
For obvious security reasons,
the domain of remotely accessible files may
be severely restricted.
You will very likely not be able to fetch files
by path name;
ask a responsible person on the remote system to
send them to you.
Similarly you will probably not be able
to send files to arbitrary path names.
By default, the only remotely accessible files are
those whose names begin
.F /usr/spool/uucppublic/
(equivalent to
.LR ~/ ).
.PP
The options are
.TF -ggrade
.TP
.B -C
Copy files in their present state to a spool directory for later transfer.
.PD 0
.B -c
Do not copy to the spool directory; 
send files in their state at the time of transmission
(default).
.TP
.B -d
Make all necessary directories for the file copy (default).
.TP
.B -f
Do not make intermediate directories for the file copy.
.TP
.BI -g grade\^
Grade is a single letter/number;
earlier
.SM ASCII 
sequence characters will cause the job to be transmitted
earlier during a particular conversation.
The default is
.BR N .
.TP
.B -j
Output the job identification
.SM ASCII
string on the standard output.
This job identification can be used by
.I uustat\^
to obtain the status
or terminate a job.
.TP
.B -m
Send mail to the requester when the copy is
completed.
.TP
.BI -n user\^
Notify
.I user\^
on the remote system that a file was sent.
.TP
.B -r
Don't start the file transfer, just queue the job.
.TP
.BI -x debug-level\^
Produce debugging output.
The
.I debug_level
is a number between 0 and 9;
higher numbers give more detailed information.
.PD
.PP
.I Uulog\^
queries a log file
of
.I uucp\^
or
.I uuxqt
transactions, optionally limited to a given
.I system.
Its options are
.TF -ggrade
.TP
.B -f
.PD 0
Print recent transactions
and follow further transactions as they occur.
.TP
.B -x
Look in the uuxqt log file for the given system.
.TP
.BI - number\^
Print the last
.I number
transactions.
.PD
.PP
.I Uuname\^
lists the uucp names of known systems.
The
.B -l
option returns the local system name.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TF/usr/spool/uucp/.Log/uuxqt/system
.TP
.F /usr/spool/uucp
spool directories
.TP
.F /usr/spool/uucppublic
public directory for receiving and sending
.TP
.F /usr/lib/uucp/*
other data and program files
.TP
.BI /usr/spool/uucp/.Log/uuxqt/ system
log of uuxqt transactions with
.I system
.TP
.BI /usr/spool/uucp/.Log/uucico/ system
log of uucp transactions with
.I system
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR uuto (1),
.IR mail (1),
.IR push (1),
.IR rcp (1),
.IR uux (1),
.IR uustat (1),
.IR uucico (8)
.br
P. Honeyman,
`UUCP\(emthe Program that Wouldn't Go Away',
this manual, Volume 2
.SH BUGS
For various reasons remote systems may decline to forward
files transmitted through them.
.br
All files received by
.I uucp\^
will be owned by user `uucp'.
.br
Option
.B -m
works only with a single file.
.br
.I Uucp
may run under a daemon userid, in which case files
to be sent need general read permission.
