.\"@(#)uustat.1c	?.?
.TH UUSTAT 1
.CT 1 comm_mach
.SH NAME
uustat \- uucp status inquiry and job control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uustat
[
.I option
]
.PP
.B uustat
[
.BI -s system
]
[
.BI -u user
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uustat\^
will display the status of, or cancel, previously specified
.I uucp\^
commands, or provide general status on
.I uucp\^
connections to other systems.
The options are
.PP
.TP \w'\fL-k\fIjobid\ 'u
.B -a\^
List the status of all pending
.I uucp
requests for all machines.
.TP
.BI -k jobid\^
Kill the
.I uucp\^
request whose job identification is
.IR jobid .
The killed
.I uucp\^
request must belong to the person
issuing the
.I uustat\^
command
unless one is the super-user.
.TP
.B -m\^
Report the status of accessibility of all machines.
.TP
.B -p\^
Report on the status of all processes that are in
the lock files.
.TP
.B -q\^
List the jobs queued for each machine.
If a status file exists for the machine, its date, time and
status information are reported.
A parenthesized number next to the number of
.L C
or
.L X
files gives the age in days of the oldest file for that system.
The retry field represents the number of hours until the next possible call.
The count field is the number of failure attempts.
.TP
.BI -r jobid\^
Rejuvenate
.I jobid\^.
The files associated with
.I jobid\^
are touched so that
their modification time is set to the current time.
This prevents the cleanup demon
from deleting the job until its modification
time reaches the limit imposed by the demon.
.TP
.BI -s sys\^
Report the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests for remote system
.IR sys .
.TP
.BI -u user\^
Report the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests issued by
.IR user .
.PP
When no options are given,
.I uustat\^
outputs the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests issued by the current user.
.PP
Requests are listed in the form
.IP
jobid	date	type	machine	stuff
.br
	date	type	machine	stuff
	...
.br
.PP
.I Jobid
identifies the request;
it is useful for
.B \-k
and
.BR \-r .
The remainder of the line
describes a transfer
queued at
.I date
for
.IR machine.
.I Type
is
.B S
if a file is to be sent to
.IR machine ,
.B R
if it is to be received.
Ordinary files
are followed by the requestor's userid,
the length of the file in bytes,
and the name of the spooled file;
requests for remote execution are followed by
the userid and the command.
If the request involves more than one file,
the remaining files are listed without
a
.IR jobid .
.PP
The most common case is a mail request,
which has two lines,
one for the mail message itself
and one for the request to execute
.I rmail
on the remote system.
.SH FILES
.F /usr/spool/uucp/*
spool directories
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR uucp (1),
.IR uux (1)
.\"	@(#)uustat.1c	?.?
