.\"@(#)uux.1c	5.2
.TH UUX 1
.CT 1 comm_mach
.SH NAME
uux \- unix to unix command execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uux
[
.I options
]
.I command-arg ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uux\^
will execute a command on a specified system with files
and standard output on specified files and systems.
For security reasons, most machines allow only selected
commands to be run, perhaps only receipt of incoming mail.
.PP
The
.I command-args
make up a 
.IR sh (1)
command with
with command and file arguments
possibly written
.IB system ! file.
A missing
.I system
is interpreted as the local system.
.I Files
may be prefixed by
.BI ~ xxx /
to represent the home directory for login name
.I xxx
on the specified system.
.PP
.I Uux\^
copies all files to the execution system.
Files to be returned as outputs must be enclosed in (escaped)
parentheses.
Files must have general read permission.
.PP
The options
are
.TF -ggrad
.TP
.BI -a name
Use
.I name
as the user identification replacing the initiator user-id.
(Notification will be returned to the user.)
.TP
.B -b
Return standard input to the command if the exit status is non-zero.
.TP
.B -c
Don't copy local file to the spool directory for transfer to the remote
machine (default).
.TP
.B -C
Force the copy of local files to the spool directory for transfer.
.TP
.BI -g grade\^
.I Grade
is a single letter/number;
earlier
.SM ASCII
sequence characters will cause the job to be transmitted
earlier during a particular conversation.
The default is
.BR N .
.TP
.B -j
Place the jobid, an
.SM ASCII
string, on the standard output.
The jobid can be used by
.IR uustat (1)
to obtain the status
or terminate a job.
.TP
.B -n
Suppress mail notification about failures.
.TP
.B -p
.TP
.B -
Take the standard input to
.I uux
as the standard input to the executed command.
.TP
.B -r
Don't start the file transfer, just queue the job.
.TP
.BI -s file\^
Report status of the transfer in
.I file.\^
.TP
.BI -x debug
Produce debugging output on stdout.
.I Debug
is a number between 0 and 9;
higher numbers give more detailed information.
.TP
.B -z
Notify the user if the command succeeds.
.ne2
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/spool/uucp
.TP
.F /usr/spool/uucp
spool directory
.TP
.F /usr/lib/uucp/*
other data and programs
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR uucp (1), 
.IR uucico (8), 
.IR uustat (1)
.SH BUGS
All the commands in a shell pipeline are executed on
the machine of the first command.
.br
Because files are gathered into a common directory,
two files for one command cannot have the same basename.
This won't work:
.L
uux "a!diff  b!/usr/dan/xyz c!/usr/dan/xyz > !xyz.diff".
