.TH LIBRARY 7
.CT 1 inst_info
.SH NAME
library, bellcat \- bell labs library services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B library
[
.I option ...
] [
.I item ...
]
.PP
.B bellcat
[
.B -q
]
[
.I database
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Library
mails orders to the Bell Labs library network for books, technical
reports, etc.
Its use is self-explanatory.
.PP
A long response may be inserted with
.B ~e
or
.B ~r
as in
.IR Mail (A).
Interaction may be forestalled by answering questions on the command line
(see example) and in a personal identity file, named in
environment variable
.B LIBFILE
.RB ( .lib
by default),
which contains one or more lines like these:
.IP
.B ID:
PAN or SSN
.br
.B LIBNAME:
last name
.br
.B LIBLOG:
log file, readable with
.B mail -f
.br
.B LIBCNTL:
concatenated search control codes:
.B a
acknowledge,
.BI m number
max on retrieved items
.br
.B LIBLOCAL:
interaction control code:
.B x
brief prompts
.LP
Most
.B LIBFILE
items may be entered as environment variables by the same names.
.PP
.I Bellcat
places a call to on-line library databases.
Once entered,
.I bellcat
is self-explanatory.
to exit.
Option
.B -q
gets a `quick search', which uses no special terminal features
and does not offer help.
.PP
Some of the databases are
.TP
.B books
(default)
.PD 0
.TP
.B journals
.TP
.B released
released papers by Bell Labs authors
.TP
.B tech_reports
non-AT&T technical reports
.TP
.I xxx
unknown name causes a list of databases to be printed
.PD
.PP
The databases of
.I Bellcat
and more are available through the LINUS
service of the library network.
You may use the
.I library
command to sign up for LINUS.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B library -1 123456-851234-56tm
Order a technical memorandum, giving answer 1 for kind of query and
specifying a document number.
.TP
.B library -4 -p waldstein, r k
Consult the people file.
.SH FILES
.F $HOME/.lib
.br
.F /usr/lib/bellcat
.SH BUGS
Except under option
.BR -q ,
.I bellcat
requires a native-mode Teletype 5620 or a (possibly simulated)
HP2621 terminal.
Under
.IR mux (9.1)
.I bellcat 
invokes a simulator if necessary.
This introduces an extra level of shell, which can
can be avoided thus:
.LR "exec bellcat" .
