.TH NETLIB 7
.SH NAME
netlib \- retrieve public-domain software
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mail research!netlib
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Netlib
retrieves files by electronic mail from a set of libraries
of public-domain software, mostly mathematical.
Netlib responds to mail messages containing one or more
of the requests described below.
.HP
.B send index
.br
.ns
.HP
.B send
[ 
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
[
.B but not
.I file ...
]
.B from
.I library ...
.br
Retrieve files from specified libraries.
The
.L index
lists all libraries and gives other helpful information.
A file is delivered together with all files
it depends on from its library, unless option
.L only
is present.
Files are retrieved in upper case for requests written
in upper case.
.HP
.B whois
.I names
.br
Retrieve addresses and telephone numbers from a database
of applied mathematicians.
.HP
.B find
.I word ... 
[
.B from
.I library ...
]
.br
Retrieve one-line index descriptions by content from all or
any directories.
.HP
.B mailsize
.I size
.br
Limit the length of mail messages to
.I size.
The size may be given in kilobytes, e.g. 
.BR 100k .
.PP
For information about a particular library, retrieve its
.LR index ,
which lists routines with one-line descriptions,
or its
.LR directory .
The library
.LR core 
contains machine constants and basic linear algebra modules
that are needed with many other libraries.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B send index from eispack
What's in 
.BR eispack ?
.TP
.B send directory from eispack
Get file names and sizes.
.TP
.B send dgeco from linpack
Retrieve a routine and all it depends on.
.TP
.B "send list of dgeco from linpack
How big would that retrieval be?
.TP
.B find cubic spline
What does
.I netlib
have about `cubic' or `spline'?
