.TH PQ 7
.SH NAME
pq \- telephonet directory assistance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pq
[
.I option ...
]
.I query
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pq
queries `Post' directory assistance computers
for information from the AT&T phone book.  A normal
query is a name, in the form
.IB first.middle.middle2.last,suffix,
where only
.I last
is required.
Earlier names may be truncated, even to a null string,
and extra punctuation may be dropped.
Other fields can be specified, in the form
.IB attribute = value,
with fields separated by
.BR / .
The attributes are
.TP
.B pn
.TP
.B name
personal (full) name; for prefix match on last name, append 
.B *
or
.BR ... ;
for phonetic search, append or prepend 
.B ?
.HP
.BR first ,
.BR middle ,
.BR middle2 ,
.BR last ,
.B suffix
.br
parts of name, prefix-matched except for suffix
.HP
.BR pid ,
.B ssn
.br
personnel identification number,
social security number
.TP
.B org
organization code
.TP
.B tl
title: abbreviated or prefix-matched; e.g. 
.BR tl=dh,
.B tl=dep.he
.TP
.B tel
phone number: (908)582-6050, punctuation optional, parts may be omitted from left
.HP
.BR area ,
.BR exch ,
.B ext
.br
parts of phone number
.TP
.B loc
location code; for prefix match, append
.B *
.HP
.BR room ,
.BR street ,
.BR city ,
.BR state ,
.B zip
.br
parts of address, prefix-matched except for state
.TP
.B ema
email address; for prefix match, append *
.TP
.B multi
which of multiple addresses for one employee; e.g. 
.B multi=2
.PD
.PP
The options are
.TP
.B -l
The query is a location code.
.TP
.BI -o " format
Provide output in the specfied
.I format, 
a string like that of
.IR printf (3),
with format codes being attribute names.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PD 0
.TP
.B pq penzias
.TP
.B pq a.a.penzias
.TP
.B pq ema=research!aap
Three ways to find a person.
.TP
.B pq loc=mh/room=2b519
Find members of an office.
.TP
.B pq \-l mt
Find information about a location.
.TP
.B
pq \-o "%24pn %10org %6loc %6room %12tel %ema" a.a.penzias
The default output format.
.PD
.SH FILES
.TP 30
$POST/lib/dispatch
directory configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
tel (7)


