.TH TEL 7
.CT 1 inst_info
.SH NAME
tel, telno, dq \- phone books
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tel
.I key
.PP
.B telno
.I key ...
.PP
.B dq
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tel
looks up
.I key
in a private telephone book,
.FR $HOME/lib/tel ,
if it exists,
and in a local book
.FR /usr/lib/tel .
.PP
.I Tel
is simply a script for
.IR grep 
(see
.IR gre (1)),
so lookup may be by any part of a name or number.
Customarily the local telephone book contains names, userids,
home numbers, and office numbers of users.
It also contains a directory of area codes and miscellaneous
people of some general interest.
.PP
.I Telno
and
.I dq
retrieve information from a central, current database
of AT&T personnel.
The former is a simple one-line interface to the latter.
.PP
For
.I telno,
a
.I key
is typically a name.
Other fields in the database may be matched by using tabs 
within the key (the key
must be quoted to protect spaces and tabs from the shell).
The fields are, in order:
.IP
.nf
name (last; last,first; first last; or payroll account no.)
organization (e.g. att or bl)
area code and exchange
extension
location
room
department
electronic mail address
.fi
.LP
Only a prefix of a first name need by given.
In some positions
.L *
(or
.BR ... )
and
.L ?
may be used as a wild cards as in 
.IR sh (1).
Case is unimportant.
.PP
.I Dq
provides interactive access to the central database.
Under
.IR mux (9.1)
it is best run
in a terminal-simulator layer, either
.L "term 5620
or
.LR "term 2621" ;
see
.IR term (9.1).
It displays a form with the same fields as
.I telno.
Fill in one or more fields, using tabs to move (circularly) between them,
backspace to erase, and space
to delete a field.
Upon carriage return a group of answers is displayed.
Type
.L ?
instead of a name to get more instructions.
.SH EXAMPLES
In these examples,
.L \et
represents a literal tab.
.TP
.L
telno emlin
Anyone named Emlin.
.TP
.L
telno '\et\et\et3744'
Anyone whose phone extension is 3744.
.TP
.L
telno 'e*\et\et\et\et\et\et\etresearch!*'
Anyone whose last name begins with E and
who gets electronic mail on machine
.LR research .
.SH FILES
.FR $HOME/lib/tel
.br
.F /usr/lib/tel
.SH SEE ALSO
.I bellcat
in
.IR library (7),
.IR pq (7)
.SH BUGS
The algorithm used by
.I dq
(and hence
.IR telno )
to match each field is distinct and unknown to us.
.br
Not all entries have electronic mail addresses.
