.TH MONITOR 3
.CT 2 debug_tune
.SH NAME
monitor \(mi prepare execution profile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B monitor(lowpc, highpc, buffer, bufsize, nfunc)
.B int (*lowpc)(), (*highpc)();
.B short buffer[];
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
An executable program created by
.L
cc -p
automatically includes calls for
.I monitor
with default parameters;
.I monitor
needn't be called explicitly
except to gain fine control over profiling.
.PP
.I Monitor
is an interface to
.IR profil (2).
.I Lowpc
and
.I highpc
are the addresses of two functions;
.I buffer
is the address of a (user supplied)
array of
.I bufsize
bytes.
.I Monitor
arranges to record a histogram of
periodically sampled values of the program counter,
and of counts of calls
of certain functions, in the buffer.
The lowest address sampled
is that of
.I lowpc
and the highest is
just below
.IR highpc .
At most
.I nfunc
call counts can be kept; only calls of functions
compiled with the profiling option
.B -p
of
.IR cc (1)
are recorded.
For the results to be significant,
especially where there are small, heavily
used routines,
it is suggested that the buffer be no more
than a few times smaller than the range
of locations sampled.
The default values for
.I bufsize
and
.I nfunc
are
(\f2highpc\fP\-\f2lowpc\fP)/8
and 300 respectively.
.PP
To profile the entire program, use
.PP
.nf
.ft L
	extern etext();
	. . .
	monitor((int (*)())2, etext, buf, bufsize, nfunc);
.ft P
.fi
.PP
.I Etext
lies just above all the
program text, see
.IR end (3).
For the highest resolution profiling on the VAX, use
.B
bufsize = ((int)highpc)-((int)lowpc)+12+8*nfunc\fR.
.PP
To stop execution monitoring and write the results
on the file
.I mon.out,
use
.PP
.L
	monitor((int (*)())0);
.LP
then
.IR prof (1)
can be used
to examine the results.
.SH FILES
.TP
.F mon.out
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR prof (1), 
.IR profil (2), 
.IR cc (1)
