.TH PLOT 3
.CT 2 comm_term
.SH NAME
vec, move, etc. \(mi plot graphics interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.2C
.B #include <plot.h>
.PP
.B openpl(s)
.B char *s;
.PP
.B closepl()
.PP
.B erase()
.PP
.B move(x, y)
.B double x, y;
.PP
.B rmove(dx, dy)
.B double dx, dy;
.PP
.B point(x, y)
.B double dx, dy;
.PP
.B vec(x, y)
.B double x, y;
.PP
.B rvec(dx, dy)
.B double dx, dy;
.PP
.B line(x1, y1, x2, y2)
.B double x1, y1, x2, y2;
.PP
.B "arc(x1, y1, x2, y2, x, y, r)"
.B "double x1, y1, x2, y2, x, y, r;"
.PP
.B circle(xc, yc, r)
.B double xc, yc, r;
.PP
.B box(x1, y1, x2, y2)
.B double x1, y1, x2, y2;
.PP
.B sbox(x1, y1, x2, y2)
.B double x1, y1, x2, y2;
.PP
.B "parabola(x1, y1, x2, y2, x3, y3)"
.B "double x1, y1, x2, y2, x3, y3;"
.PP
.B fill(n, arr) int n[];
.B double *arr[];
.PP
.B poly(n, arr) int n[];
.B double *arr[];
.PP
.B spline(n, arr)
.B int n[];
.B double *arr[];
.PP
.B cspline(n, arr)
.B int n[];
.B double *arr[];
.PP
.B fspline(n, arr)
.B int n[];
.B double *arr[];
.PP
.B lspline(n, arr)
.B int n[];
.B double *arr[];
.PP
.B dspline(n, arr)
.B int n[];
.B double *arr[];
.PP
.B text(s)
.B char *s;
.PP
.B color(s)
.B char *s;
.PP
.B cfill(s)
.B char *s;
.PP
.B pen(s)
.B char *s;
.PP
.B range(x1, y1, x2, y2)
.B double x1, y1, x2, y2;
.PP
.B frame(x1, y1, x2, y2)
.B double x1, y1, x2, y2;
.PP
.B grade(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B save()
.PP
.B restore()
.PP
.B ppause()
.1C
.ft P
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions generate either a device-independent
graphic stream (see
.IR plot (5))
or device-dependent graphics commands.
The include file
.B <plot.h>
is used only for device-independent output.
An alternative include file,
.BR <iplot.h> ,
supports device-independent output using identically named
functions of integer, instead of double, arguments.
.PP
Libraries for different devices are loaded with the following
.IR ld (1)
flags:
.TF -lblit
.TP
.B -lplot
general stream output
.TP
.B -l2621
HP2621 terminal
.TP
.B -l4014
Tektronix 4014 terminal
.TP
.B -ltr
Troff input, tuned for the Mergenthaler Linotron 202 phototypesetter
.TP
.B -lpen
HP7580 pen plotter
.TP
.B -l5620
5620 terminal running
.I mux
.PD
.PP
String arguments are null-terminated and may not contain
embedded newlines.
For details on string arguments, see
.IR plot (5).
.I Poly, fill,
and the various spline functions
take an integer array and an array of pointers
to double floating point arrays.
The integers specify the number of vertices
.RI ( x-y
pairs)
in the floating point array.
The last integer entry should be 0.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR plot (1), 
.IR plot (5)
.SH BUGS
The
.B -ltr
library should be tuned for PostScript.
