.TH VIEW2D 3X
.CT 2 graphics
.SH NAME
view2d, moviefil \(mi movie of a function f(x, y, t)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "view2d(fd, nx, ny, time, u, v, fixuv, pmin, pmax, p)"
.B short "p[];"
.B double time;
.PP
.B "moviefil(fd, nx, ny, time, outside, f)"
.B float "time, outside, f[];"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I View2d
writes a frame in the format
.IR view2d (5)
onto the file specified by file descriptor
.I fd.
To load these routines, use the
.IR ld (1)
option
.BR -lview2d .
.I Nx, ny
give the grid size.
.I Time
is a (nondecreasing) frame index, typically set to simulation time
or iteration count.
.I U
and
.I v
describe the relation between pixel values and user function values:
.IP
.I p
=
.I u
+
\fIf\|\fR\(mu\|2\u\s7\-\fIv\fR\s0\d.
.LP
.I U
and
.I v
may vary from one frame to the next.
When the global scaling is known beforehand,
put
.I fixuv
= 1 and set
.I pmin
and
.I pmax
to the limits of the data.
(Otherwise put
.IR fixuv =0;
.I pmin
and
.I pmax
will be ignored.)
.PP
.I P
is the
.I nx
by
.I ny
array of pixel values,
with the
.I x
index running fastest.
There is a threshold for describing nonrectangular regions:
any pixel value less than or equal to
.L \%-32766
is treated as an
out-of-bounds marker and will appear as black.
Other pixel values should lie in the range
.L
\%-32765..32765
inclusive.
.PP
.I Moviefil
is an alternate version that
is somewhat less flexible
but easier to use.
It takes floats
and scales automatically to shorts.
An element of
.I f
less than
.I outside
is treated as undefined and will appear as black.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR view2d (1), 
.IR view2d (5)
.SH BUGS
The array arguments are 2-D Fortran arrays.
