.TH CALENDAR 1 
.CT 1 time_man
.SH NAME
calendar \- reminder service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B calendar
[
.B -
]
[
.I n
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Calendar 
consults calendar files
and prints out lines that contain today's date or
any date up through the
.IR n th
working day hence
.RI ( n =1
by default).
Most American-style month-day dates such as
.BR "Aug. 19" ,\ 
.BR "august 19" ,\ 
.BR "8/19" ,
etc., are recognized, but not
.LR 19/8 .
The symbol 
.L *
denotes every month as in
.B *
19 or
.BR */19 .
A year may follow the day, as in
.BR "August 19 86" ,\ 
.BR "8/19/86" ,
or
.BR "Aug. 19, 1986" .
.PP
By default, the program consults the file
.F calendar
in directory
.B $HOME
(see
.IR sh (1)),
or in the current directory if a home directory is not known.
Other calendar files to be consulted may be specified by calendar
lines in one of the forms
.IP
.B #include
\f5\fIfile\^\f5
.br
.B #include
\f5\fImachine\f5!\fIfile\^\f5\fR
.LP
where
.I file
is the name of some other calendar and
.I machine
is the name of a machine or service accessible via
.IR con (1).
Includes do not nest.
.PP
When the optional
.L -
argument is present,
.I calendar
reminds all users of their calendar engagements by
.IR mail (1).
Normally this happens daily in the wee hours under control of
.IR cron (8).
Calendars not in home directories, or recipients not registered
as users, may be registered
for reminder service by placing lines of the form
.I calendarfile mailname
in file
.FR /usr/lib/calendar .
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
#include /usr/pub/btlcalendar
#include /n/coma/usr/pub/btlcalendar
#include mh/astro/coma.calendar!/usr/pub/btlcalendar
.EE
.ns
.IP
Ways to subscribe to a public calendar by
(1) users of
.LR mh/astro/coma ,
(2) users elsewhere who have
.IR netfs (8)
access to
.BR coma ,
and (3) users elsewhere without
.I netfs
access.
.SH FILES
.TF
.TP
.F calendar
.PD0
.TP
.F /usr/lib/calendar?
.TP
.F /etc/passwd
.TP
.F /tmp/cal*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR at (1)
.SH BUGS
The mail reminder service doesn't work when 
it finds fewer than two calendars.
.br
Your calendar must be public information for you
to get reminder service.
.br
Holidays are what the program says they are.
