.TH CPIO 1
.CT 1 comm_users
.SH NAME
cpio \- copy file archives in and out
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpio
.BI -o
[
.I acBv
]
.PP
.B cpio
.BI -i
[
.I BcdmrtuvfsSb6
]
[
.I pattern ...
]
.PP
.B cpio
.BI -p
[
.I adlmruv
]
.I directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cpio -o
(copy out)
reads the standard input to obtain a list of path names
and copies those files onto the
standard output
together with path name and status information.
.PP
.B Cpio -i
(copy in)
extracts files from the
standard input
which is assumed to be the product of a previous
.BR "cpio -o" .
Only files with names that match the
.I patterns
are selected.
.I Patterns
are given in the name-generating notation of
.IR sh (1);
the default is
.BR * 
(all files).
The extracted files are conditionally created and copied
into the current directory tree
based upon the options described below.
File ownership is preserved if possible.
.PP
.B Cpio -p
(pass) reads from the standard input a list of path names
of files to copy
into the destination
.IR directory.
.PP
The options are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.B a
Reset access times of input files after they have been copied.
.TP
.B B
Input/output is to be blocked 5,120 bytes to the record
(does not apply to the
.I pass\^
option; meaningful only with data directed to or from
.FR /dev/rmt? ).
.TP
.B d
.I Directories\^
are to be created as needed.
.TP
.B c
Write header
information in
.SM ASCII
character form for portability.
.TP
.B r
Interactively rename
files.
An empty name (newline only) causes a file to be skipped.
.TP
.B t
Print a table of contents
of the input.
No files are created.
.TP
.B u
Copy unconditionally
(normally an older file will not overwrite a newer file).
.TP
.B v
(Verbose)
List file
names;
.B -vt
looks like
.BR "ls -l" .
.TP
.B l
Whenever possible, link files rather than copying them.
Usable only with
the
.B -p
option.
.TP
.B m
Retain previous file modification time.
This option is ineffective on directories that are being copied.
.TP
.B f
Copy in all files except those in
.I patterns.\^
.TP
.B s
Swap bytes.
Use only with the
.B -i
option.
.TP
.B S
Swap halfwords.
Use only with the
.B -i
option.
.TP
.B b
Swap both bytes and halfwords.
Use only with the
.B -i
option.
.TP
.B 6
Process an old (i.e.,
.SM UNIX Sixth\^
Edition format)
file.
Only useful with
.B -i
(copy in).
.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L
ls | cpio -oc >/dev/mt1
Copy the contents of the current directory to a tape.
.PP
.EX
mkdir newdir
cd olddir
find . -print | cpio -pd ../newdir
.EE
.ns
.IP
Reproduce a directory hierarchy;
.B newdir
must exist.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ar (1), 
.IR bundle (1),
.IR tar (1),
.IR find (1), 
.IR cpio (5), 
.IR cp (1)
.SH BUGS
Path names are restricted to 128 characters.
.br
Does not know about symbolic links.
.br
If there are too many unique linked files,
linking information is lost.
.br
Only the super-user can copy special files.
.br
The archive size is reported in archaic `blocks' of 512 bytes.
.\"	@(#)cpio.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
