.TH CSCAN 1 coma,pipe
.CT 1 misc
.SH NAME
cscan \- scan documents on canon scanner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cscan
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cscan
acquires black-and-white images using the
Canon 9030 Laser Copier flatbed document scanner
located in the Graphics Lab.
Each
.I file
receives one image; multiple
.IR file s
are scanned as fast as possible
(every 12s, after a startup delay).
If no
.I file
is specified, one image is written to the standard output.
.PP
Each image is compressed using the CCITT FAX Group 4 standard
and supplied with a header as described in
.IR picfile (5).
The default page format is 3456 by 4400 pixels (\fIi.e.\fR letter-size 8.64"\(mu11.0"
at 400 pixels/inch digitizing resolution).
.PP
The options are:
.TP
.BI -f x,y
Format is
.I x
by
.I y
pixels.
.I X
is truncated to a multiple of 32.
.TP
.B -fL
Double-letter format
.BR -f 4416,6800
or 11"\(mu17" at 400 pixels/inch
(the largest possible).
.TP
.BI -s s
Sleep between scans for an extra
.I s
seconds.
.TP
.BI -v
Verbose: announce each
.I file
as it arrives.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR bcp (1),
.IR ocr (1),
.IR picfile (5)
.SH BUGS
Although only 10s are required to acquire and compress each image,
it can take 40s for the first file to appear,
due largely to networking latencies involving
.IR rcp (1).
.br
.I Cscan
is unkillable:
scanning continues and the files keep coming.
.br
The automatic document feeder is not supported.
.br
The resolution recorded in the header is always 400 pixels/inch,
even though it is possible manually to zoom to other resolutions.
