.TH CU 1
.CT 1 comm_mach 
.SH NAME
cu, ct \- call out to a terminal or another system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cu
[
.B -htn
] [
.B -p
.I parity
] [
.B -s
.I speed
]
.I telno
[
.I service-class
]
.PP
.B ct
[ option ...
]
.I phone-number
[
.I service-class
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cu
places a data call to a given telephone number
and expects a computer to answer.
It manages an interactive conversation with possible
transfers of text files.
.I Telno
is the telephone number, consisting of digits with minus signs at appropriate
places to indicate delay for second or subsequent dial tones.
A telephone number may also be expressed symbolically.
A symbolic number is looked up in the files
.F $HOME/lib/cunumber
and
.F /usr/lib/cunumber
whose lines look like this:
.IP
symbolic-number
actual-number
service-class
comment
.LP
The actual number
may be preceded by options
such as
.BR \-t .
The
.I comment,
if present, is printed out when the connection is made.
.PP
The options are
.TP
.B -n
Print the the called number but do not call it.
.TP
.B -t
Tandem:
use DC1/DC3 
.RB (control- S /control- Q )
protocol to stop transmission from
the remote system when the local terminal buffers are almost full.
This argument should only be used if the remote system
understands that protocol.
.TP
.B -h
Half-duplex:
echo locally the characters that are sent to the remote system.
.TP
.BI -s " speed"
Set the line speed;
.L 1200
means 1200 baud, etc.
The default depends on service class.
.TP
.BI -p " parity"
Set the parity of transmitted characters:
.BR 0 ,
.BR 1 ,
.BR e ,
.BR o
mean
zero,
one,
even,
odd parity.
.B 0
is the default.
.PP
The service class is expressed as in 
.IR dialout (3).
A special class
.L direct
causes the
.I telno
argument to be taken
as the pathname
of a terminal line.
.I Cu
opens the file,
sets line speed and other modes,
and proceeds as if connected.
The default line speed is
9600 baud.
.PP
An explicit service class on the command line overrides
any specified in a
.L cunumber
file.
.PP
After making the connection,
.I cu
runs as two processes:
the sending
process reads the standard input and
passes most of it to the remote system;
the receiving
process reads from the remote system and passes
most data to the standard output.
Lines beginning with
.L ~
have special meanings.
.PP
The sending
process interprets:
.TP `\fL~%break\ 'u
.B ~.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BR ~ EOT
Terminate the conversation.
.TP
.BI ~< file
Send the contents of
.I file
to the remote system,
as though typed at the terminal.
.TP
.B ~!
Invoke an interactive shell on the local system.
.TP
.BI ~! cmd
Run the command on the local system
(via
.LR "sh -c" ).
.TP
.BI ~$ cmd
Run the command locally and send its output
to the remote system.
.TP
.B ~b
.br
.ns
.TP 
.B ~%break
Send a break (300 ms space).
.TP
.BI ~%take " from \fR[\fIto\fR]"
Copy file
.I from
(on the remote system)
to file
.I to
on the local system.
If
.I to
is omitted,
the
.I from
name is used both places.
.TP
.BI ~%put " from \fR[\fIto\fR]"
Copy file
.I from
(on local system)
to file
.I to
on remote system.
If
.I to
is omitted, the
.I from
name is used both places.
.TP
.BI ~~ text
send
the line
.BI ~ text .
.PD
.PP
WARNING: Using
.I cu
to reach your home machine from a machine you don't trust
can be hazardous to your password.
.PP
.I Ct
places a telephone call to a remote terminal
and allows a user to log in on that terminal
in the normal fashion.
The terminal must be equipped with an auto-answer
modem.
.PP
The
phone number and service class
are as in
.I cu.
The options are
.TP
.BI -c " count"
If the number doesn't answer, try 
.I count
times before giving up (default 5).
.TP
.BI -w " interval
Space retries
.I interval
seconds apart (default 60).
.TP
.B -h
Try to hang up the phone before placing the
call.
This is useful for a
`call me right back' arrangement.
.SH FILES
.F /usr/lib/cunumber
.br
.F $HOME/lib/cunumber
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR con (1),
.IR ttyld (4), 
.IR dialout (3)
.SH BUGS
Unless erase and kill characters are the same on the two machines,
they will be damaged by
.BR ~%put .
.br
.B ~%take
uses
.BR ~>
at the beginning of line to synchronize transmission.
This sequence can cause misfunction if it is received
for any other purpose.
