.TH DAG 1
.CT 1 writing_troff graphics
.tr @"
.SH NAME
dag \- preprocessor for drawing directed graphs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dag
[
.I option ...
] [ file ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dag
is a
.IR pic (1)
or PostScript preprocessor for laying out directed graphs.
It does well on
acyclic graphs (dags) and other graphs that can be drawn
hierarchically.
Graph statements are contained between
.B .GD
(node ranks increase downward) or
.BR .GR 
(rightward) and
.BR .GE .
Edges point in the direction of increasing rank if possible;
the other direction is favored for edges within rank.
A summary of statements follows.
.PP
.B edge from
.I tail
.B to
.IB "head0 edge-items" ,
.B to
.IB "head1 edge-items" ,
.B to
.IB "head2 edge-items..." ;
Create edges from the tail node
to the head node(s).
Nodes are created if they do
not already exist.
Edge-items
(described below) and the noise words
.BR edge ,
.BR from ,
.BR to ,
and comma are optional.
Node names may be quoted to protect blanks or keywords.
.PP
.B ordered
.IB "tail head0 head1 head2..." ;
Make edges with heads in given left-to-right order 
on the same rank.
May contain noise words and edge-items.
.PP
.B path
.IB "node0 node1 node2..." ;
Make a path of edges.
May contain noise words and edge-items.
.PP
.B backedge
.IB "tail head0 head1 head2..." ;
Same as edges with opposite node ranking preferred.
.PP
.B backpath
.IB "node0 node1 node2..." ;
Make a path of backedges.
.PP
.B draw nodes
.IB node-items ;
Set properties of subsequently created
nodes.
Legal
.IR node-items :
.RS
.TF color\ string
.TP
.BI as " shape
Known shapes are
.BR Box ,
.BR Circle ,
.BR Doublecircle ,
.BR Ellipse 
(default),
.BR Diamond ,
.BR Square ,
.BR Plaintext .
Other shapes may be specified within braces
.B {}
in the output language (e.g.
.IR pic )
or defined; see below.
.TP
.BI label " @string@
Label with
.I string 
instead of node name.
.TP
.BI pointsize " points
.TP
.BIwidth " inches
.TP
.BI height "inches
.TP
.BI color " @string@
Hue-saturation-brightness
triple; works only with PostScript.
.PD
.RE
.PP
.B draw
.IB "nodelist node-items" ;
Set properties of listed nodes.
.PP
.B draw edges
.IB edge-items ;
Set properties of subsequently created edges.
Legal
.IR edge-items :
.RS
.TF color\ string
.HP
.BR dotted ,
.BR dashed ,
.BR solid ,
.BR invis 
.TP
.BI label " @string@
.TP
.BI weight " n
High-weight edges are kept short. Default weight 1.
.TP
.BI color " @string@
.TP
.BI pointsize " points
.PD
.RE
.PP
.B minimum rank
.IB nodelist ;
Listed nodes must be on the topmost rank (leftmost with
.BR .GR ).
.PD0
.PP
.B maximum rank
.IB nodelist ;
Bottommost or rightmost rank.
.PP
.B same rank
.IB nodelist ;
.PD
.HP
.B separate ranks
.IB "inches how " ;
Set minimum separation between ranks.
The optional
.I how 
is
.B exactly
or
.BR equally .
.PD 0
.TP
.BI "separate nodes " inches " ;
.PD
.PP
.ne 3
The options are
.TF -Tsimple
.PD
.TP
.B -O 
Place nodes `optimally';
practical for graphs of a few
dozen nodes.
.TP
.B -Tps
Prepare output for PostScript rather than
.I pic.
.PD0
.TP
.B -Tsimple
Output similar to that of
.IR graphdraw (9.1).
.TP
.B -Tcip
Output readable by
.IR cip (9.1).
.PD
.TP
.BI -p width x height , marginwidth\fPx\fPmarginheight
Set PostScript page dimensions; 
.I marginwidth
and/or
.I marginheight
may be omitted.
.TP
.B -l
Disable automatic loading of the
.IR dag
graphics library.
.PP
The introductory
.B .GD
or
.B .GR
line may carry optional parameters in the form
.B .GD
.I width
.I height
.BR fill .
.I Width
and
.I height
are maximum values in inches;
.B fill
causes the graph to be stretched to the full dimensions.
.PP
Graphics code written in the output language
.RI ( pic
or PostScript)
may be embedded between 
.B .PS
and
.BR .PE .
Macros defined
with three arguments\(emlabel, width, and height\(emmay
be used as shape names in node-items.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
\&.GD 2 2
a b c;
path a x y;
draw nodes as Box;
a z label "hi" weight 1000;
draw edges dashed;
b x;
same rank b x;
\&.GE
.EE
.if n .ig
.GD 2 2
a b c;
path a x y;
draw nodes as Box;
a z label "hi" weight 1000;
draw edges dashed;
b x;
same rank b x;
.GE
..
.SH FILES
.TF $TOOLS/daglib.pic
.TP
.F $TOOLS/daglib.pic
default
.BR TOOLS = /usr/lib
.TP
.F $TOOLS/daglib.ps
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR pic (1),
.IR lp (1),
.IR graphdraw (9.1),
.IR psi (9.1),
.IR troff (1)
.br
E. R. Gansner, S. C. North,  K. P. Vo,
`DAG\(emA Program that Draws Directed Graphs',
this manual, Volume 2
.SH BUGS
The delimiter
.B .GD
is nonstandard; it may be called
.B .GS
in installations where
.IR ped (9.1)
is not used.
.br
.I Troff 
lacks dotted or dashed splines; use PostScript.
.br
Edge labels may overlap.
