.TH DU 1
.CT 1 sa_mortals 
.SH NAME
du, df \- disk usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B du
[
.B -s
]
[
.B -a
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B df
[
.B -i
]
[
.I special ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Du
gives the number of Kbytes allocated to data blocks
of named
.I files
and, recursively, of files in named directories.
If
.I name
is missing,
.L .
is used.
The count for a directory includes the counts of the 
contained files and directories.
The options are
.PP
.TP
.B -s
Print only the grand total.
.TP
.B -a
Print a count
for every file in a directory.
Normally counts are printed only for contained directories.
.PP
A file which has two (hard) links to it is counted only once.
Symbolic links are neither counted nor followed.
.PP
.I Df
printsthe amount of free space on the file system
contained in
.IR special ,
or on the file system in which the specified
.I file
is contained.
If no file system is specified,
the free space on all of
the currently mounted file systems
is printed.
.PP
The reported numbers are in Kbytes,
independently of the blocksize actually used on the file system.
.PP
The
.B -i
option also reports
the number of inodes which are used and free.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L
df .
.br
How much space is there where I'm working?
.SH FILES
.TF /etc/fstab
.TP
.F /etc/fstab
only for the root device
.TP
.F /etc/mtab
list of currently mounted file systems
.SH SEE\ ALSO
.IR quot (8),
.IR fstab (5),
.IR icheck (8)
.SH BUGS
In the absence of option
.B -a
non-directories given as arguments to
.I du
are not listed.
.br
If there are too many distinct linked files,
.I du
counts the excess files multiply.
.br
Unwritten holes in files count as if real data were present,
and indirect blocks are not counted.
