.TH FIND 1 
.CT 1 files dirs
.SH NAME
find \- find files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B find
.I pathname ... expression
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Find
recursively descends
the directory hierarchy for each
.I pathname,
seeking files that match a boolean
.I expression,
which consists of one or more arguments.
It does not follow symbolic links.
In the following descriptions of primary expressions,
.I n
is a decimal integer;
.BI + n
may be written to specify more than 
.I n
and
.BI - n
to specify less. 
.TP 10n
.BI -name " filename"
True if the
.I filename
argument matches the current file name.
Normal shell filename metacharacters may be used if quoted.
.TP
.BI -perm " onum"
True if the file permission flags
exactly
match the
octal number
.I onum
(see
.IR  chmod (1)).
If
.I onum
is prefixed by a minus sign,
more mode bits (017777, see
.IR   stat (2))
become significant and
the modes are compared:
.IR (mode&onum)==onum .
.TP
.BI -type " c"
True if the type of the file
is
.I c,
where
.I c
is
.BI b ", " c ", " d ", "
.BI f ", "
or
.B L
for
block special file, character special file,
directory, plain file or symbolic link.
.TP
.BI -links " n"
True if the file has
.I n
links.
.TP
.BI -user " uname"
True if the file belongs to the user
.I uname
(login name or numeric userid).
.TP
.BI -group " gname"
True if the file belongs to group
.I gname
(group name or numeric groupid).
.TP
.BI -size " n"
True if the file is
.I n
blocks long (512 bytes per block).
.TP
.BI -inum " n"
True if the file has inode number
.I n.
.TP
.BI -atime " n"
True if the file has been accessed in
.I n
days.
.TP
.BI -mtime " n"
True if the file has been modified in
.I n
days.
.TP
.BI -ctime " n"
True if the inode has been changed in
.I n
days.
.TP
.BI -exec " command"
True if the executed command returns
a zero value as exit status.
The end of the command must be punctuated by an escaped
semicolon.
A command argument 
.L {}
is replaced by the
current pathname.
.TP
.BI -ok " command"
Like
.B -exec
except that the generated command is written on
the standard output, then the standard input is read
and the command executed only upon response
.BI y .
.TP
.B  -print
Always true;
causes the current pathname to be printed.
.TP
.BI -newer " file"
True if
the file has been modified more recently than the argument
.I file.
.TP
.BI -status " n
True if
.IR lstat 
(see
.IR stat (2))
applied to the file yields error number
.IR n ;
see
.IR intro (2).
Testing
.L -status
turns off diagnostics that errors normally produce.
On ordinary systems a nonzero error number occurs when a file 
disappears underfoot or a file system is in trouble.
.PP
The following operators, listed in order of decreasing precedence,
may be used to combine primary expressions.
.TP 
.BI ( " expression " )
Group with parentheses.
.TP
.BI ! " expression
Negation.
True if and only if
.I expression 
is not true.
.TP
.I expression expression
Conjunction.
True if both expressions are true.
.TP
.IB expression " -o " expression
Disjunction.
True if either expression is true.
.SH EXAMPLES
.HP
.L
find / \e( -name a.out -o -name '*.o' \e) -atime +7 -exec rm '{}' \e;
.br
Remove all files named
.L a.out
or
.L *.o
that have not been accessed for a week.
.SH FILES
.F /etc/passwd
.br
.F /etc/group
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR sh (1), 
.IR test (1), 
.IR filsys (5)
