.TH GAMES 1
.CT 1 misc inst_info
.SH NAME
games, demo \- some playthings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.2C
.fi
.BI /usr/jerq/bin/demo 
[
.I game
]
.de xx
.ti -3n
\fB\\$1 \\$2 \\$3\fP
.br
..
.PP
.xx Labyrinth games
.B adventure
.br
.B zork
.br
.B rogue
.br
.B wump
.PP
.xx Card games
.B fish
.br
.B canfield
.br
.B bridge
[
.I arg ...
]
.br
.B mille
.PP
.xx Board games
.B back
.PP
.xx Word games
.B hangman
[
.B -a
]
.br
.B word_clout
.br
.B festoon
.I length percent
.PP
.xx System games
.B imp
.br
.B tso
.PP
.xx War games
.B mars 
[
.B -dfhmp
]
[
.BI -cqs value
]
.I file ...
.br
.B ogre
[
.I type
]
.br
.B warp
.PP
.xx Games of speed and dexterity
.B atc
.br
.B snake
.br
.B worm
.br
.PP
.xx Educational games
.B quiz
[
.B \-i
.I file
]
[
.B \-t
]
[
.I question answer
]
.br
.B arithmetic
[
.B +-x/
]
[
.I range
]
.br
.PP
.xx Creative games
.B /usr/jerq/bin/twid
.br
.B banner
.PP
.xx Sayings
.B fortune
[
.I file
]
.br
.B doctor
.br
.B say
[
.I N
]
.PP
.xx Coding games
.br
.B bcd
.IR text
.br
.B ppt
.br
.B morse
.br 
.B /usr/bin/number
.PP
.xx Out-of-layer games
.B /usr/jerq/bin/pen
.br
.B /usr/jerq/bin/crabs
[
.B -i
]
.B \e
.br
	[
.B -s
.I gracetime
]
[
.B -v
.I speed
]
[
.I n
]
.sp
.1C
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
Game programs exist sporadically on various machines.
Manuals for many of them may be obtained by using
.IR man (1).
For example, to see manual pages for
.I atc
and
.I twid,
type
.BR "man atc twid" .
Unless shown otherwise, games live in
.FR /usr/games ,
which may be put in your shell
.B PATH
to reach them more conveniently.
Some need a cursor-addresses terminal; see the appropriate 
manual pages and
.IR term (9.1).
.PP
.I Demo
and other games found in
.FR /usr/jerq/bin 
need a Teletype 5620 terminal running under
.IR mux (9.1).
.I Demo
comprises many games, which are listed when it
is invoked without an argument.
Experiment with the mouse to find out they work.
Some unobvious interactions are these:
.IP
.I Swar
is for two players, one using
.L asdwx
on the keyboard, the other
.LR 12350
on the keypad.
.br
.I Pacman
is controlled by
.L hjkl
keys as in
.IR vi (1).
.PP
Here is a list of some
.I demo 
games.
.LP
.2C
.xx Watch the time
.B clock
.PP
.xx War games
.B swar
.br
.PP
.xx Games of speed and dexterity
.B gebam
.br
.B pengo
.br
.B centipede
.br
.B asteroids
.br
.B pacman
.PP
.xx Educational games
.B maxwell
.PP
.xx Out-of-layer games
.B tracks
.br
.B pogo
.br
.B magnet
.PP
.xx Animation
.B EWD
.br
.B road
.br
.B juggle
.br
.B ball
.br
.B fence
.PP
.xx Movies
.B horse
.br
.B dodec
.br
.B explode
.br
.B arno
.PP
.xx Patterns
.B bounce
.br
.B moire
.br
.B fireworks
.br
.B rose
.br
.B disc
.br
.B lunch
.1C
.SH " "

