.TH LP 1 
.CT 1 writing_output comm_dev
.SH NAME
lp \- printer output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lp
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lp
is a generalized output printing service.
It can be used to queue files for printing,
check a queue, or kill jobs in a queue.
The options are:
.TF -p\ \fIproc\fP
.TP
.BI -d " dest"
Select the destination printer.
If
.I dest
is
.LR ? ,
list the currently available printers.
In the absence of
.LR -d ,
the destination is taken from the environment variable
.BR LPDEST  ,
or finally from the file
.FR /usr/spool/lp/defdevice .
Destination
.L stdout
is the standard output.
.TP
.BI -p " proc"
The given preprocessor is invoked.
The default preprocessor is
.LR generic ,
which tries to do the right thing for regular text, 
.IR troff (1)
output, or 
.IR bitfile (9.5)
bitmaps.
If no preprocessing is desired
(e.g. an ImPress file from
.L dviimp
is to be printed)
.L noproc
may be specified.
.TP
.B -q
Print the queue for the given destination.
For some devices, include printer status.
.TP
.B -k
Kill the job(s) given as subsequent arguments instead of file names
for the given destination.
.PD
.PP
The remaining options may be used to affect the output at a given device.
These options may not be applicable to all devices.
.TF -p\ \fIproc\fP
.TP
.BI -c " n"
Print
.I n
copies.
.TP
.BI -f " font"
Set the font (default
.LR CW.11 ).
.TP
.BI -H
Suppress printing of header page.
.TP
.BI -i " n"
Select paper input tray
.I n.
.TP
.BI -l " n"
Set the number of lines per page to
.I n.
.TP
.B -L
Print pages in landscape mode (i.e. turned 90 degrees).
.TP
.BI -m " n"
Set magnification to
.I n.
.TP
.BI -n " n"
Print
.I n
logical pages per physical page.
.TP
.BI -o " list"
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in
the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.
A range
.IB n - m
means pages
.I n
through
.IR m ;
a range
.BI - n
means from the beginning to page
.IR n ;
a range
.IB n -
means from page
.I n
to the end. 
.TP
.B -r
Reverse the order of page printing (currently not functional).
.TP
.BI -x " n"
Set the horizontal
offset of the print image, measured in inches.
.TP
.BI -y " n"
Set the vertical
offset of the print image, measured in inches.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 0
.L
eqn paper | troff -ms | lp
Typeset and print a paper that contains equations.
.TP
.L
pr -l100 file | lp -l100 -fCW.8
Print a file in a small font at 100 lines per page.
.TP
.L
lp -dstdout -H <bitfile >postfile
Convert a bitmap to postscript form.
Use
.IR mpictures (6)
macros to insert the output into a
.I troff
document.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/spool/lp/defdevice
.TP
.F /usr/spool/lp/defdevice
default printer name
.TP
.F /usr/spool/lp/devices
printer list with interface specification
.TP
.F /usr/spool/lp/process 
directory of preprocessors
.TP
.F /usr/spool/lp/prob/*
where printer jobs go when things go awry
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR pr (1), 
.IR blitblt (9.1), 
.IR plot (1), 
.IR font (6),
.IR postio (8),
.IR postscript (8)
.SH BUGS
Not all options work with all output devices.
.br
Any user can kill any job.
