.TH MAN 1
.CT 1 inst_info
.SH NAME
man \(mi print pages of this manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I chapter
]
.I title ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Man
locates and prints pages of this manual named
.I title
in the specified
.IR chapter .
.I Title
is given in lower case.
The
.I chapter
number is a single digit, 1-9;
pages marked (3S) or (9.1), for example,
belong to chapters 3 and 9 respectively.
If no
.I chapter
is specified, pages 
in all chapters, including the unprinted appendix, are printed.
.PP
On some machines a cache of preformatted pages is available.
If so, and if neither option
.B -t
or
.B -n
is present, option
.BR -q ,
for quick printing, is assumed.
.PP
The options are:
.TP
.B -q
Copy cached pages to the standard output
or, if they are out of date or unavailable, act as
.BR -n .
Any name from the 
.SM NAME
list at the top of the page will serve as a
.I title
in the cache.
If the standard output is directed to a terminal,
filter it through
.IR ul (1).
.TP
.B -t
Use
.IR troff (1)
to place on the standard output intermediate code to drive
the typesetting devices of
.IR lp (1),
.IR apsend (1),
or
.IR proof (9.1).
.TP
.B -n
Print the pages on the standard output using
.I nroff.
.TP 
.B -f
The
.I titles
are actual names of manual source files.
Assume option
.B -t
unless 
.B -n
is present.
.PP
Under
.B -t
and
.B -n
further options, e.g. to specify the kind of terminal you have,
are passed on to
.I troff 
or
.IR nroff .
.PP
From time to time a daemon
updates cached pages that are out of date
and supplies links for subsidiary entries.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B man man
Reproduce this page and
.IR man (6).
.TP
.B "man -t eqn eqnchar | lp
Format the
.I eqn
and
.I eqnchar
pages and send them to the laser printer.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/spool/man?/man.?
.TP
.F /usr/man/man?/*.?
.I troff
source for manual; this page is
.F /usr/man/man1/man.1
.TP
.F /usr/spool/man/man?/*.?
manual cache 
.TP
.F /usr/man/man0/cache
cache daemon; invoked by
.IR cron (8)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR troff (1),
.IR man (6),
.IR apsend (1),
.IR lp (1),
.IR proof (9.1)
.SH BUGS
The manual was intended to be typeset; some detail is sacrificed on terminals.
.br
You can't ask for manual pages named 1 through 9.
.br
Pages not available in the cache can be located by their proper titles only.
.br
Cache entries by subsidiary names are always deemed up to date.
