.TH MATLAB 1
.CT 1 numbers
.SH NAME
matlab \(mi interactive matrix desk calculator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lbin/matlab
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Matlab
manipulates complex matrices interactively.
Special cases include
real matrices and scalars.
Operations include pseudoinversion (which
is inversion for square nonsingular matrices), eigendecomposition,
various other factorizations, solution of linear equations, matrix
products (including inner and outer products), Kronecker products,
log, exponential and trigonometric functions of matrices, and rank and
condition estimation.
.PP
Variables are alphanumeric strings of at most
4 characters.
Case is ignored.
Expressions and assignment statements are written
as in Fortran.
Multiple statements can be put on one line,
separated by either comma or semicolon; the result of a statement
is written on the standard output unless a semicolon follows the statement.
Extensions to Fortran notation include:
.PP
.I Matrix construction
from elements.
Elements in a row are separated by commas; columns are
separated by semicolons; matrices are surrounded by
.L  < >
brackets.
.PP
.I Transpose
is indicated by postfix prime
.LR ' .
.PP
.I Consecutive integers
are denoted by colons in the style 1:4 or 1:2:8 (meaning 1,3,5,7).
.L A(2:5)
is a subarray;
.L A(:,j)
is a column.
.PP
.I Identity
matrix is denoted 
.LR eye ;
its dimensions are dictated by context.
.PP
.I Reverse division
is denoted by \e .
For example,
.L x = A \e b
is roughly the same as
.LR "x = inv(A) * b" ,
except that Gaussian elimination, if applicable, is used to compute
.IR x .
.PP
Some
.I matlab
commands:
.TP
.B help
.PD0
.TP
.BI help " word"
List commands and functions, or specific information about a
.IR word :
.IP
.ft 5
.nf
ABS   ANS   ATAN  BASE  CHAR  CHOL  CHOP  CLEA  COND  CONJ  COS 
DET   DIAG  DIAR  DISP  EDIT  EIG   ELSE  END   EPS   EXEC  EXIT
EXP   EYE   FILE  FLOP  FLPS  FOR   FUN   HESS  HILB  IF    IMAG
INV   KRON  LINE  LOAD  LOG   LONG  LU    MACR  MAGI  NORM  ONES
ORTH  PINV  PLOT  POLY  PRIN  PROD  QR    RAND  RANK  RCON  RAT 
REAL  RETU  RREF  ROOT  ROUN  SAVE  SCHU  SHOR  SEMI  SIN   SIZE
SQRT  STOP  SUM   SVD   TRIL  TRIU  USER  WHAT  WHIL  WHO   WHY 
.fi
.TP
.BI save(' file ')
.TP
.BI save(' file \fR[\fB, var \fR]...\fB')
Save all current variables,
or just the designated variables in
.I file.
.TP
.BI load(' file ')
Restore saved variables.
.TP
.BI exec(' file ')
Execute the commands in
.I file
before reading more commands from the standard input.
.PD
.PP
.I Matlab
can be called as a subroutine.
For details, see the reference or
type
.LR "help user" .
.SH FILES
.F /usr/lib/mathelp.dac
.br
.F /usr/lib/mathelp.idx
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Cleve Moler,
.I MATLAB User's Guide,
Technical Report CS81\-1 (Revised), Dept.
of Computer Science, University of New Mexico, 1982.
(Available in troff form with the Matlab source.)
