.TH OCR 1 coma,pipe,crab
.CT 1 graphics
.SH NAME
ocr \- optical character recognition
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ocr
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ocr
reads a black-and-white image of a page from
.IR file ,
and writes ASCII to the standard output.
If no
.I file
is specified, it reads from the standard input.
.PP
The input is a
.IR picfile (5)
image of one column of machine-printed text.
Fonts, sizes, and line-spacings may vary within the column,
but each line should have a constant size and baseline.
Lines should be parallel and roughly horizontal.
.PP
In the output, white space approximates the original page layout.
Words are checked and corrected by reference to the
.IR spell (1)
dictionary, and hyphenations across lines are recombined.
.PP
The options are:
.nr xx \w'\fL-pn,m\ \ '
.TP \n(xxu
.BI -a s
The alphabet is the union of symbol sets selected by characters in string
.IR s ,
from among:
.RS
.PD
.nr yy \w'\fLA\ \ '
.TP \n(yyu
.B A
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
.PD0
.TP
.B a
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
.PD0
.TP
.B 0
0123456789
.PD0
.TP
.B .
\&.\^,\|-\^:\^;\|*\^'\|\^"\|?\^!\|/\|&\|$\^(\^)\^[\|\^]\|#\|@\|% \0\0\0\0\0\0\0 \kz(basic punctuation)
.ig
should include ` /(em + ???
shouldn't include []#@% ???
..
.PD0
.TP
.B ^
^\|\f(CW~\fR\^`\|\^\\\||\|\^{\|}\|_ \h'|\nzu'(extended punctuation)
.ig
should include []#@% ???
shouldn't include ` ???
..
.PD0
.TP
.B +
+\^\-\^*\|/\|<\^>\^=\^.\^E\|e\|[\|] \h'|\nzu'(for numerical tables)
.PD0
.TP
.B s
.ie t \(sc\^\(dg\^\(dd\^\(ct\|\(bu\|\(rg\|\(co\|\(de\^\(fm\^\(en\|\^\(mi\|\(em \h'|\nzu'(selected non-ASCII)
.el \\(sc\\(dg\\(dd\\(ct\\(bu\\(rg\\(co\\(de\\(fm\\(en\\(mi\\(em (selected non-ASCII)
.PD0
.TP
.B l
.ie t \(fi\|\(fl\|f\h'-.1m'f\|f\h'-.1m'\(fi\|f\h'-.1m'\(fl\|\N'114'\|\N'115'\|\N'105'\|\N'106' \h'|\nzu'(ligatures and digraphs)
.el fi fl ff ffi ffl ae AE oe OE \h'|\nzu'(ligatures & digraphs)
.PD
.PP
The default is
.BR -aAa0.+^ ,
the full printable-ASCII set, which may be abbreviated as
.BR -ap .
Thus,
.B -apsl
selects all of the above.
.RE
.PD
.TP \n(xxu
.BI -m l[,r]
Trim the left and right margins of the image by
.I l
and
.I r
inches, respectively, before looking for columns.
If
.I r
is omitted, it is assumed to equal
.IR l.
.TP
.BI -n n
Find the
.I n
largest columns.
Each column should be compactly-printed
and separated from the others by at least 5 ems of horizontal white space.
.TP
.BI -p n,m
Point sizes lie in the range [
.I n, m
]; other sizes are discarded.
The default is
.BR -p6,24 .
.TP
.B -t
Write
.IR troff (1)
format.
Each column is shown on a separate page, left- and top-justified.
Lines are placed at their original height in the column,
and each word starts at its original horizontal location in the line.
Characters are printed approximately original size in Times roman.
Hyphenated words are not recombined.
.TP
.B -u
Unspellable words are prefixed with `?' or, if
.B -t
is specified, printed boldface.
.TP
.BI -w w
Find the largest column of width
.I w
inches.
.SS Fonts
Times, Helvetica, Palatino, Constant Width, Printout, Baskerville, Memphis,
Caslon Old, Zapf, Optima, Futura, Euro, Spartan, Garamond, Breughel, Textype,
Bembo, Souvenir and similar fonts are recognized in roman,
italic, bold, condensed, and expanded styles.
Also Tibetan, on request.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR bcp (1),
.IR cscan (1),
.IR font (6),
.IR picfile (5),
.IR spell (1),
.IR troff (1)
.SH BUGS
For best results, use images of high-contrast, cleanly-printed original
documents digitized at a resolution of 400 pixels/inch or higher.
It sometimes helps to restrict the alphabet and sizes to what's there.
Multiple-column finding is chancy; if it goes wrong, runtimes may be excessive.
.ig
8.7 CPU minutes on pipe to read this page, September 1989.
..
