.tr @|
.TH PREFER 1 
.CT 1 writing_troff
.SH NAME
prefer, pinvert, penter, plook, pconvert \- maintain and use bibliographic references
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prefer
[
.I option ...
]
.PP
.B penter
[
.I outfile
]
.PP
.B pinvert
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B plook
[
.B -p
.I dbfile
]
[
.I keyword ...
]
.PP
.B pconvert
[
.B -d 
]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Prefer
is a
.IR troff (1)
preprocessor for bibliographic references.
It copies a document from the standard input
to the standard output, using a bibliographic database to
change symbolic references
into full references ready for typesetting by
.IR troff (1).
Although symbolic references are in the style of
.IR monk (1),
.I prefer
does not depend on 
.I monk.
The options are:
.TF dbfile
.TP
.B -n
Format for
.IR nroff .
.TP
.BI -o sortkey
Under the
.B @reference_list
command, sort according to
.IR sortkey ,
any combinations of the letters
.LR a
(author)
.LR d
(date), and
.LR t
(title),
rather than
in database sequence.
If
.I sortkey is
.LR sort ,
sort according to the current style.
.TP
.BI -p dbfile
Use
.I dbfile
as the bibliographic database (default
.FR prefer.out ).
.TP
.B -r
Format as a released paper
(technical memorandum default).
.TP
.BI -s style
Set the formatting 
.I style ,
one of
.LR att 
(default),
.LR acm ,
.LR apa ,
.LR ieee ,
.LR lsa ,
.LR pami ,
.LR spectrum .
.PD
.PP
.I Prefer
recognizes the following commands,
which may appear anywhere in a document.
Parentheses
.B ()
in the commands
may be replaced by any of
.B "{} [] <>".
.TP
.BI @reference_style( " style arg ..." )
Switch to a new formatting style.
All previous references are forgotten
and a new list of references is begun.
If
.I style
is
.B same
the current style remains (but all previous references are forgotten).
Optional
.IR args
are:
.RS
.TF sequence
.TP
.BR tm
Format as a technical memorandum.
.TP
.B rp
Format as a released paper.
.TP
.B nroff
Format for
.I nroff.
.TP
.B troff
Format for
.I troff.
.TP
.B sort
Print a
.B @reference_list
in an order appropriate for the current style.
.TP
.B sequence
Print a
.B @reference_list
in database sequence.
.TP
.I sortkey
Print a
.B @reference_list
according to the
.IR sortkey ,
any combination of the letters
.LR a ,
.LR d ,
.LR t 
as above.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BI @reference( keywords
.I %ref_fields 
.IB %flags )
.br
Insert a citation mark
in the current style
(e.g. [7], \s-2\v'-0.4m'3\v'0.4m'\s+2, (Knuth, 1975)).
One or more
.I keywords
cause selection from the bibliographic database.
Each
.B %
argument must begin a new line.
.I %ref_field
lines override information from the database;
with no
.I keywords
a complete reference
may be given.
For the form of reference fields, see the output of
.I penter.
The following 
.I %flags
may modify the citation.
.RS
.TF posttextstring
.TP
.B %no_author
Exclude author information.
.TP
.B %no_date
Exclude date from the citation mark.
.TP
.B %no_cite
Omit the entire citation, but include the entry in the final reference list.
.TP
.BI %pre_text " string
Insert
.I string
before the citation mark.
.TP
.BI %post_text " string
Insert
.I string
after the citation mark
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BI @reference_include( " dbfile ..." )
Include the contents of the database(s)
.I dbfile(s)
in the list of references,
treating them as
.B %no_cite
entries.
.TP 
.B @reference_placement
Produce a list of all references specified in
.B @reference
or
.B @reference_include
commands since
the beginning of the document or the last
.B @reference_style
or
.BR @reference_placement .
.TP
.BI @reference_list( " dbfile ..." )
Format the contents of the database(s)
.IR dbfile .
.TP
.BI @\^reference_database( " dbfile " )
Switch to database
.I dbfile
.PP
.I Penter
helps build
.I prefer
bibliographic databses.
It prompts for a reference type,
and then for admissible attributes, such as author, date, etc.
A default value proposed in brackets
.B [] 
may be accepted by typing a newline,
skipped by typing spaces before the newline,
or overridden by typing a new value.
The character
.L &
appended to an attribute causes
.I penter
to prompt for the attribute again
(to enter multiple authors, for example).
.PP
The answer
.L ?
to the initial prompt gets a list of all reference types.
The answer
.L help
gets a subprompt for a reference type
whose pertinent attributes will then be listed.
The answer
.L ?
to the subprompt gets attributes for every type.
.PP
The attribute
.B also
permits one entry to refer to another
by naming keywords for
the other reference.
An entire `also' citation may be included within a
.B @reference
thus:
.br
.ns
.IP
.EX
%also_begin \fItext\fP
\fI%ref_fields\fP
%also_end
.EE
.PP
The attribute
.B keywords
prompts for distinguishing keys for the current entry, in addition to
those already occurring within author, title, etc.
.PP
The `reference type' 
.B quit
causes
.I penter 
to exit, first writing the collected database information into
.I outfile
.RF ( prefer.out
by default).
.PP
The `attribute'
.B ~e
permits editing of the current reference with the editor
specified by environment variable
.BR EDITOR ,
.IR ed (1)
by default;
.B ~v
gets the editor
.BR VISUAL ,
.IR vi (1)
by default.
.PP
.I Pinvert
creates an inverted index to one or more bibliographic database
.I files.
The index is placed in
.IB file .i ,
where
.I file
is the first input file.
An associated
.IB file .h
contains the names of the input files.
The options are:
.TF commmon
.TP
.BI -c common
Do not index words listed in file
.I common
(default
.FR /usr/lib/eign ).
.TP
.BI -i ignore
Do not index information about attributes listed in file
.I ignore.
(The default 
.F /usr/lib/prefer/ignore
lists
.BR %volume ,
.BR %number ,
.BR %part ,
.BR %pages ,
.B %X 
(location status),
.B %Y
(read status),
.B %Z
(comment).)
.TP
.BI -k i
Maximum number of keys kept per record (default 100).
.TP
.BI -l i
Maximum length of keywords (default 6, none is less than 3).
.TP
.BI -p file
The basename of the index is
.I file.
Prefer will write the index to
.IB file .i .
.TP
.B -v
Verbose.
Print statistics.
.PD
.PP
.I Plook
uses the inverted index to
retrieve bibliographic records by
.I keywords
from the command line
or the standard input.
Records that contain all the keywords in the request
are sent to
the standard output.
Option
.B -p
is the same as for
.I pinvert.
.PP
.I Pconvert
converts a 
.IR refer (1)
database to 
.I prefer
style.
Under option
.B -d
it converts
.IR refer -style
commands in a document to
.I prefer
style.
.ig
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
@\^reference_style<apa>
A keyword citation@reference<awk tm 1985> in the middle of a line.
.br
A complete citation
.br
@reference(
.br
%post_text , Chapter 6
.br
%type book
.br
%author Aho, Alfred V.
.br
%author Sethi, Ravi
.br
%author Ullman, Jeffrey D.
.br
%title Compilers, Principles, Techniques, and Tools
.br
%publisher Addison-Wesley
.br
%address Reading, Massachusetts
.br
%date 1986 ).
.br
\&.ce
Bibliography
@\^reference_placement
..
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/prefer/mypubenter
.TP
.F prefer.out
default database
.TP
.F prefer.out.i
default index file
.TP
.F prefer.out.h
default header file containing names of databases
.TP
.F /usr/lib/eign
default list of common words
.TP
.F /usr/lib/prefer/ignore
default list of 
.I %ref_fields
to ignore for indexing
.TP
.F /usr/lib/prefer/styles/*
.I awk
scripts of formatting instructions for each style
.TP
.F /tmp/prefer*
scratch file
.TP
.F /usr/lib/prefer/ptemplate
reference type definitions, self-describing
.TP
.F /usr/lib/prefer/mypubenter
program executed by penter
.SH SEE ALSO
M. A. Derr,
`Formatting References with Prefer',
this manual, Volume 2
.br
.IR refer (1), 
.IR monk (1), 
.IR troff (1)
.SH BUGS
.I Prefer
commands don't work immediately after certain
formatting macros, e.g. .SM, .I, .B.
.br
.I Plook
complains if the first key matches more references than it can store.
Try rearranging your request so a less common word comes first.
.br
.I Pinvert 
does not record options
.B -c
and
.BR -l .
If you use them with
.I pinvert,
you will have to supply them for
.I prefer
and 
.I plook
as well.
.tr @@
