.TH PROF 1
.CT 1 debug_tune
.SH NAME
prof \(mi display profile data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prof
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I a.out
[
.I mon.out ...
]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Prof
interprets files
produced by
.IR monitor (3)
or the
.B -p
option of
.I cc
or
.I f77.
The symbol table in the
named object file
.RL ( a.out
by default)
is read and correlated with the
profile file
.RL ( mon.out
by default).
For each symbol, the percentage
of time spent executing between that symbol
and the next
is printed (in decreasing order),
together with the time spent there and
the number of times that routine was called.
If more than one profile file is specified,
the output represents the sum of the profiles.
.PP
Zero call counts are tallied for subroutines not compiled
with option
.BR -p .
The flag
.BR -p
must be passed to the loader to get the profiling output written.
.PP
Options are:
.TP
.B -l
Sort the output by symbol value.
.TP
.B -n
Sort the output by number of calls.
.TP
.B -s
Produce a summary profile file in
.FR mon.sum .
.TP
.BI "-v -" low " -" high
Produce a graphic profile
on the standard output for display by the
.IR  plot (1)
filters.
Optional numbers
.I low
and
.I high,
by default 0 and 100, select
a percentage of the profile to be plotted.
.TP
.B -z
Include routines with zero usage in the output.
.SH FILES
.TF mon.out
.TP
.F mon.out
for profile
.TP
.F a.out
for namelist
.TP
.F mon.sum
for summary profile
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR time (1), 
.IR lcomp (1), 
.IR monitor (3),
.IR getopt (3), 
.IR profil (2),
.IR plot (1), 
.IR cc (1),
.IR f77 (1)
.SH BUGS
Beware of quantization errors.
.br
.I Prof
is confused by
.I f77,
which puts the entry points at the bottom of subroutines and functions.
