.TH PS 1
.CT 1 proc_man sa_mortals
.SH NAME
ps \(mi process status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ps
[
.BI afhnlrux\fR[\fPFt name\fR][\fP num \fR]
...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ps
prints information about processes.
Normally, only the user's
non-shell processes are reported.
.PP
All output formats include, for each process, the process id, its
control terminal, status, cpu time, and command.
The status is given
by a sequence of letters:
.ta \w'W'u+1m \n(LLu/2u +\w'W'u+1m
.PP
\f5R\f1	Running.	\f5T\f1	Stopped.
.br
\f5P\f1	Waiting for a page.	\f5S\f1	Sleeping (< 20 seconds).
.br
\f5I\f1	Idle (> 20 seconds).	\f5N\f1	Process is `nice'; see \f2nice\f1(1).
.br
\f5W\f1	Swapped out.
.PP
.LR R ,
.LR T ,
.LR P ,
.LR S ,
and
.L I
are mutually exclusive.
.PP
Options are given in blank-separated clusters:
.nr xx \w'\f2number'u+1m/1n
.TP \n(xx
.B a
Give information about all users (ordinarily
only one's own processes are displayed).
.PD 0
.TP
.BI F file
Display all processes having the
.IR file 
open;
this option must be the last in a cluster.
.TP
.B f
Display file descriptors (with prepended process id).
.TP
.B ff
Display file descriptors (omitting process id).
.TP
.B h
Print column headers.
.TP
.B l
(long) Print the process size in kilobytes,
resident set size, parent process id, and wait channel.
.TP
.B n
Print unsorted
(output is normally sorted by process id).
.TP
.B r
Print processes which match the current real or effective user id
(normally only processes matching the current effective user id
are printed).
.TP
.BI t s
Print processes whose control stream is
.I s,
where
.I s
is either
.L .
(for user's tty), or one of the forms printed by
.I ps,
e.g.
.L 03
for
.FR /dev/tty03 ,
.L conso
for console,
.L dk12
for
.FR /dev/dk/dk12 ,
.L t?
for processes with no tty, etc.
This option must be the last in a cluster.
.TP
.B u
Include a name of the
effective userid and cpu share in percent; sort by usage.
.TP
.B x
Include shell and
.IR init (8)
processes.
(A stopped shell is reported without
.BR x .)
.TP
.I num
Print the designated process;
must be the last option in a cluster.
.PD
.PP
Multiple
.BR F ", " t ", and"
.I n
options are allowed; the union of all selections is printed.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/net/friends+1m
.TP
.F /proc
process images
.TP
.F /dev/drum
swap device
.TP
.F /dev/kmem
kernel memory
.TP
.F /dev
searched to find tty names
.TP
.F /dev/dk
searched to find dk names
.TP
.F /etc/fstab
searched to find local file system names
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR kill (1), 
.IR nice (2), 
.IR proc (4), 
.IR load (1)
.SH BUGS
Things can change while
.I ps
is running.
