.TH PUSH 1
.CT 1 comm_mach
.SH NAME
push, pull, npush, npull \- datakit remote file copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B push
[
.B -v
]
.I machine file ... remotedir
.PP
.B pull
[
.B -v
]
.I machine file ... localdir
.PP
.B npush
[
.B -v
]
.I machine file ... remotedir
.PP
.B npull
[
.B -v
]
.I machine file ... localdir
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Push
and
.I pull
copy files between machines over Datakit.
.I Push
copies
.I files
from the local machine
to the directory
.I remotedir
on the named
.I machine.
.I Pull
copies
.I files
from the named
.I machine
to the directory
.I localdir
on the local machine.
The last component of the name of a copy is the same
as that of the original.
If one of the
.I files
is a directory, a corresponding
directory is created
and the directory's files are copied, recursively.
.PP
Option
.B -v
announces each file as it is copied.
.PP
Pushing and pulling involve two programs running in
different contexts on different machines.
In particular, pulling
to directory
.L .
puts files in the local current directory,
but pushing to
.L .
puts files in the remote home directory.
Shell metacharacters which are to be interpreted
on the remote machine must be quoted.
.PP
.I Npush
and
.I npull
behave exactly like
.I push
and
.I pull,
but use a different protocol, necessary for communicating
to some other Datakit clusters.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/Rpush
.TP
.F /usr/lib/Rpull
link to
.F /usr/bin/pull
for remote end of transaction
.TP
.F /usr/lib/Rpush
link to
.F /usr/bin/push
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR con (1), 
.IR cp (1), 
.IR rcp (1),
.IR cu (1),
.IR uucp (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Messages marked
.L (remote)
are from the sister process running on the
remote machine.
