.TH QSNAP 1 "pipe"
.CT 1 filmprinter graphics
.SH NAME
qsnap \(mi high resolution digital film printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qsnap
[
.BI -bfmrxRXY
]
[
.I N ...
]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Qsnap
produces images on a QCR digital film printer.
The input
.I file
should be in the form of
.IR picfile (5),
3-channel for color or 1-channel for black and white.
.LP
Option letters appear in one string.
Certain options require a numeric argument, 
.I N,
which follows the string as a separate argument.
.TP
.B b N
Set the brightness of the image to
.I N,
.RI 0\(<= N \(<=8;
0 is brightest.
The default brightness value is 2 in
high resolution mode (4K\(mu4K pixels), and 0 in
low resolution mode (2K\(mu2K pixels) as set by option
.BR R .
.TP
.B f N
Correct the exposure for a given type of film.
Valid film types are: 7, 8, and 0 to 5 inclusive.
.br
0 = (default) Polaroid Type 52 (4\(mu5 inch).
.br
1 = linear correction table.
.br
2 = Polaroid Type 559 color pack film (4\(mu5 inch), 2K mode.
.br
3 = Ektachrome 100 color film (35mm), 2K mode.
.br
4 = Ektachrome 100 color film (35mm), 4K mode.
.br
5 = Polaroid Type 559 color pack film (4\(mu5 inch), 4K mode.
.br
7 = Polaroid Type 809 color film (8\(mu10 inch), 4K mode.
.br
8 = Tmax-100 black&white film (35mm), 2K or 4K mode.
.TP
.B m N
Set the enlargement factor.
The image is enlarged with a simple box filter.
Default values are
.IR N =3
for 2K resolution and
.IR N =6
for 4K.
.TP
.B r
Expose the red channel of a color image only (for multiple
red overlays).
.TP
.B x N
Expose the image N times.
(Useful if the maximum brightness value is not bright enough.)
.TP
.B R N
Set the resolution, where
.I N
is either 2 or 4, to select low (2K\(mu2K) or high (4K\(mu4K) resolution,
respectively.
The default it to leave the resolution unchanged.
.TP
.B X N
Offset the image along the x-coordinate by N pixels.
The 35mm camera in 4K mode may require an X- and/or a Y-offset.
The offset in each direction is multiplied by the enlargement factor.
.TP
.B Y N
Offset the image along the y-coordinate by N pixels.
.LP
The imaging resolution for 35mm film is 114 pixels/mm (2895 dots/inch)
in high resolution mode, and 57 pixels/mm in low resolution mode.
The maximum size image that fits a 35mm negative is 3840x3072 pixels.
It takes about 2 minutes to render such an image in black and white,
or 6 minutes in color.
Since the color film is usually less sensitive to red, it is good
practice to expose the red channel of a color image twice, using
option
.BR r .
Kodak Ektachrome color film, 100 ASA, or
Kodak Tmax-100 black and white film are recommended.
For 100 ASA film, imaging at brightness level 2 produces
the best results.
.LP
With the 4\(mu5 inch module, the imaging resolution is 34 pixels/mm
(864 dots/inch) in high resolution mode, 17 pixels/mm in low resolution.
Polaroid Type 559 color film or Polaroid Type 52
black and white film is recommended.
.LP
With the 8\(mu10 inch module, the imaging resolution is 17 pixels/mm.
This module can only be used in high resolution mode.
Polaroid Type 809 color film is recommended.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pico (1),
.IR bcp (1),
.IR cscan (1),
.IR imscan (1),
.IR picfile (5)
