.TH SPELL 1
.CT 1 writing_aids 
.SH NAME
spell \- find spelling errors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spell
[
.I option
]
...
[
.I file
]
...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Spell
looks up words from the named
.I files
(standard input default)
in a public spelling list and in a private list.
Possible misspellings\(emwords 
that occur in neither and are not plausibly derivable
from the former\(emare placed on the standard output.
.PP
.I Spell
ignores constructs of
.IR troff (1)
and its standard preprocessors,
as well as constructs of
.IR tex (1).
It understands these options:
.TP
.B -b
Check British spelling.
.TP
.B -v
Print all words not literally in the spelling list, with
derivations.
.TP
.B -x
Print, marked with
.LR = ,
every stem as it is looked up in the spelling list,
along with its affix classes.
.PP
The private list, by default
.FR $HOME/lib/spelldict ,
is arranged one word per line.
.PP
Pertinent files may be specified by
environment variables, listed below with their default settings.
Copies of all output
are accumulated in the history file, if it exists and is writable.
.PP
As a matter of policy, 
.I spell
does not admit multiple spellings of the same word.
Variants that follow general rules are preferred over
over those that don't, even when the unruly spelling is
more common.
Thus, in American usage, `modelled', `sizeable', and `judgment' are
rejected in favor of `modeled', `sizable', and `judgement'.
Agglutinated variants are shunned: `crewmember' and `backyard'
cede to `crew member' and  `back yard' (noun) or `back-yard' 
(adjective).
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/dict/spellhist
.TP
.F /usr/dict/amspell
American spelling list, hashed
.RB ( D_SPELL )
.TP
.F /usr/dict/brspell
British spelling list
.TP
.F /usr/dict/spellhist
history file
.RB ( H_SPELL )
.TP
.F $HOME/lib/spelldict
private list
.RB ( A_SPELL )
.TP
.F /usr/dict/spellprog
the main routine
.RB ( P_SPELL )
.TP
.F deroff
(or
.FR delatex )
for removing punctuation and 
.IR troff (1)
constructs
.RB ( DEROFF )
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR dict (7),
.IR deroff (1),
.IR wwb (1)
.SH BUGS
For efficiency spell uses a probabilistic method,
which has a small chance (<0.001) of accepting a
random string as a word.
.br
The heuristics of
.IR deroff (1)
and
.IR delatex ,
used to excise formatting information, are imperfect.
.br
The spelling list's coverage is uneven;
in particular biology, medicine, and chemistry, and
perforce proper names,
are covered very lightly.
New installations may wish to 
monitor output (with
.FR /usr/dict/spellhist )
to catch local additions.
.br
British spelling was done by an American.
