.TH SPLIT 1
.CT 1 files
.SH NAME
split, fsplit \- split a file into pieces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B split
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file
]
.PP
.B fsplit
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Split
reads
.I file
(standard input by default)
and writes it in pieces of 1000
lines per output file.
The names of the
output files are
.BR xaa ,
.BR xab ,
and so on to
.BR xzz .
The options are
.TP
.BI - n
Split into
.IR n -line
pieces.
.TP
.BI -e " expression"
File divisions occur at each line
that matches a
.IR grep -style
regular
.IR expression ;
see 
.IR gre (1).
Multiple
.B -e
options may appear.
If a subexpression of
.I expression
is contained in escaped parentheses
.BR \e( ... \e) ,
the output file name is the portion of the
line which matches the subexpression.
.TP
.BI -f " stem
Use
.I stem
instead of
.B x
in output file names.
.TP
.BI -s " suffix
Append
.I suffix
to names identified under
.BR -e .
.TP
.B -x
Exclude the matched input line from the output file.
.TP
.B -i
Ignore case in option
.BR -e ;
force output file names (excluding the suffix)
to lower case.
.PP
.I Fsplit
splits a collection of Fortran subprograms in one
.I file
into separate files.
The options are
.TP
.B -f
.PD0
.TP
.B -e
.TP
.B -r
Set the file suffix: procedure
.L proc
will go into file
.L proc.f
(default),
.LR proc.e ,
or
.L proc.r
accordingly.
Block data subprograms will go into files named
.LR BLOCKDATA1.f ,
etc.
.PD
.TP
.B -i
Force output file names to lower case.
.TP
.B -s
Strip off data beyond column 72 together with any resulting trailing blanks.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR sed (1), 
.IR awk (1)
.IR grep
in
.IR gre (1)
