.TH TEX 1
.CT 1 writing_other
.SH NAME
tex, initex, virtex, dvips, dvit \- text formatting and typesetting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tex
[
.L -t
]
[
.I first-line
]
.PP
.B initex
[
.I first-line
]
.PP
.B virtex
[
.I first-line
]
.PP
.B dvips
[
.I option ...
]
.I dvifile
.PP
.B dvit
[
.I option ...
]
.I dvifile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tex
formats interspersed text and commands
and outputs a 
.L .dvi
(`device independent') file.
.PP
An argument given on the command line
behaves as the first input line.
That line should begin with a (possibly truncated) file name
or a 
.LR \econtrolsequence .
Thus
.L tex paper
processes the file
.LR paper.tex .
The basename of
.L paper
becomes the
.IR jobname ,
and is used in forming output file names.
If no file is named, the jobname is
.LR texput .
The default
.L .tex
extension can be overridden by specifying an extension explicitly.
.PP
The output is written on
.IB jobname .dvi ,
which can be printed using
.IR lp (1).
A log of error messages goes into
.IB jobname .log.
.PP
As well as the standard TeX fonts, many
.I Postscript
fonts can be used
(see the contents of
.FR /usr/lib/tex/fonts ).
To use Times Roman fonts instead of Computer Modern,
use the
.L -t
option.
The file
.F testfont.tex
(in the standard macro directory) will print a table of any font.
.PP
These environment variables adjust the behavior of
.IR tex :
.TF TEXINPUTS
.TP
.B TEXINPUTS
Search path for
.L \einput
and
.L \eopenin
files.
It should be colon-separated,
and start with dot.
Default:
.L .:/usr/lib/tex/macros
.TP
.B TEXFONTS
Search path for font metric files.
Default: 
.F /usr/lib/tex/fonts
.TP
.B TEXFORMATS
Search path for format files.
Default:
.F /usr/lib/tex/macros
.TP
.B TEXPOOL
Search path for strings.
Default:
.B /usr/lib/tex
.PD
.PP
.I Initex
and
.I virtex
provide customized versions of
.I tex.
.I Initex
creates a format
.RB ( .fmt )
file that permits fast loading of fonts and macro packages.
The command
.LR \edump ,
issued after fonts and definitions have been processed,
will initialize the file.
The format file is used by
.I virtex,
which requires a format file name preceded by
.L &
as the first thing it reads.
.PP
.I Dvips
and
.I dvit
convert 
.L .dvi
files to Postscript
and
.I troff
output format, respectively,
writing the result on standard output.
They are invoked by
.IR lp (1)
and accept a subset of
.I lp
options that make sense for
.L .dvi
files.
In addition, they accept a
.BI -T dev
option, where
.I dev
is one of
.L laserwriter
(default for
.IR dvips ),
.L jerq
(default for
.IR dvit ),
.LR gnot ,
.LR imagen ,
or
.L lino
(the computer center's high resolution Postscript service).
The
.L -Tjerq
or
.L -Tgnot
options should be used for preparing output for
.IR proof (9.1)
or
.IR psi (9.1).
.PP
.I Dvips
and
.I dvit
understands some extended graphics commands that can be output using
.I "tpic specials"
in the TeX source.
Many of them work by building up a path of
.I x,y
pairs, and then doing something with the path.
The tpic coordinate system has its origin at the current dvi position
when a drawing special is emitted;
all length arguments are in units of milli-inches,
and the y-axis goes positive downward.
.TP
.BI "\especial{pa " "x y" }
Add
.I x,y
to the current path.
.TP
.B "\especial{fp}
Flush the current path: draw it as a polygonal line and reset the path
to be empty.
.TP
.BI "\especial{da " dlen }
Like
.B fp
but draw dashed line, with dashes
.I dlen
milli-inches long.
.TP
.BI "\especial{dt " slen }
Like
.B fp
but draw a dotted line, with dots
.I slen
apart.
.TP
.B "\especial{sp}"
Like
.B fp
but draw a quadratic spline.  The spline goes through the midpoints of the
segments of the path, and straight pieces extend it to the endpoints.
.TP
.BI "\especial{ar " "x y xr yr s e" }
Draw a circular or elliptical arc with center at
.I x,y
and radii
.IR xr " and " yr .
The arc goes clockwise from angle
.I s
to angle
.I e
(angles measured clockwise from the positive x-axis).
.TP
.BI "\especial{pn " n }
Set line width (pen diameter) to 
.IR n milli-inches.
.TP
.B "\especial{bk}"
Set shading to black (will fill the next object drawn with black).
.TP
.B "\especial{sh}"
Set shading to grey.
.TP
.B "\especial{wh}"
Set shading to white.
.TP
.BI "\especial{psfile=" "file options" }
(Only
.IR dvips ).
Include
.IR file ,
which should be a Postscript illustration,
making its origin be the current dvi position.
The default Postscript transformation matrix will be in effect,
but it can be modified by the
.IR options ,
a list of
.IR key = value
assignments.
Allowed keys are:
hoffset, voffset, hscale, vscale, and rotate.
If supplied, these values are supplied to Postscript
.IR translate , scale ", and " rotate"
commands, in that order.
Also, keys hsize and vsize may be supplied, to cause clipping to
those sizes.
.TP
.BI \especial{include " horg yorg file" }
(Only
.IR dvit ).
Include the
.IR troff (1)
output
.I file
at the current place on TeX's page.
The included file should have only one page.
The
.I horg
and
.I yorg
distances give the origin of the included file;
that point will be superimposed on the current position.
.PP
All of the specials leave TeX at the same position on the page that
it started in.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/tex/macros/doc/*
.TP
.F /usr/lib/tex/macros/*
macros and preloaded format files
.TP
.F /usr/lib/tex/macros/doc/*
more TeX-related documentation
.TP
.F /usr/lib/tex/fonts/*
font metrics and bitmaps
.TP
.F /usr/lib/tex/*
miscellaneous configuration files and Postscript headers
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR latex (6),
.IR pic (1),
.IR lp (1),
.IR proof (9.1),
.IR psi (9.1),
.IR troff (1),
.IR monk (1)
.br
Donald E. Knuth,
.I The TEXbook,
Addison Wesley, 1986
.SH BUGS
It should be possible to make TeX output go on standard output.

