.TH VIEW2D 1
.CT 1 graphics
.SH NAME
view2d, regrid, vdata \- movie of a function f(x, y, t)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B view2d
[
.I option ...
]
.I file
.LP
.B regrid
[
.I option ...
]
.I file
.LP
.B vdata
[
.I option ...
]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I View2d
displays a sequence of functional surfaces on a Teletype 5620 or 
frame buffer.
On the 5620, the surface is ruled with a square mesh
and projected isometrically;
on a frame buffer, the surface is viewed from above,
with height indicated by color.
The options are
.ta \w'\f5-t\fITS[,TE]  'u
.TP
.B -T5
Output on the 5620;
.TP
.B -Tc
Output on frame buffer (default);
.B -Tc
is assumed when
.L TERM
is not 5620.
.TP
.B -Tp
Produce input for
.IR plot (1)
to produce contour plots.
.TP
.BI -c n
Use
.I n
colors
.RI ( n =32
by default)
or contours (6 by default).
.TP
.BI -p s
Run movie for
.I s
seconds
.RI ( s =5
by default).
.PP
There are two supported ways to generate input for
.IR view2d .
.I Vdata
takes
.SM ASCII
input and allows scattered data;
.IR view2d (3)
can be called from a program that
already has data on a grid.
.PP
.I Regrid
changes the grid sizes in
.I view2d
binary files,
with options:
.TP
.B -b
Add a bar at the bottom of the image to indicate time.
.TP
.BI -n NX , NY
Output grid is
.IR NX\(muNY ;
.BI , NY
may be omitted.
.TP
.BI -f NF
Output will have
.I NF
frames.
.TP
.B -r
The plane of closest fit to the first frame
is subtracted from all the frames.
.TP
.BI -m fmin , fmax
Clip the data to the range
.I fmin,fmax.
.PP
One option applies to both
.I view2d
and
.IR regrid :
.TP
.BI -t TS , TE
Display frames from
.I TS
(default first frame time)
to
.I TE
(may be omitted, default last frame time).
.PP
.I Vdata
takes input in the following format and converts to input for
.IR view2d .
The first line of each frame has
the number of data points in the frame (an integer)
and the time (a floating point value).
The rest of the lines in the frame consist of blank-separated
.I x y z
triples.
The order of points is irrelevant.
The options are:
.TP
.BI -n NX , NY
Output grid is
.IR NX\(muNY ;
.BI , NY
may be omitted.
.TP
.B -c
Use piecewise constant rather than linear interpolation.
.TP
.B -s
Scatterplot the data on a black background.
.TP
.B -i
The data is already on a square grid,
in the order
.I x
and
.I y
ascending with
.I x
varying fastest.
.SH FILES
.F /usr/lib/view2d/*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR view2d (3), 
.IR view2d (5), 
.IR plot (1)
.br
.F /n/bowell/usr/lib/view2d/howto
for more options and how to run equipment.
