.TH WWB 1
.CT 1 writing_aids
.SH NAME
wwb, style, diction, punct \- writer's workbench
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wwb style
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.PP
.B wwb diction
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.PP
.B wwb suggest
.PP
.B wwb punct
.I file ...
.PP
.B wwb wwb
[
.B -ms
]
[
.B -mm
]
.I file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Wwb
controls many subprograms documented in
the references.
For the full treatment use
.LR "wwb wwb" ,
but for quick use the following
subprograms are recommended.
.PP
.I Style
reports on readability, sentence length and
structure, word length and usage, verb type, and sentence openers
in the named documents.
Options peculiar to
.I style
are
.nr xx \w'\f5-p \fIpfile '
.TP \n(xxu
.B -a
Print all sentences with their length and readability index.
.TP
.B -e
Print all sentences that begin with an expletive.
.TP
.B -p
Print all sentences that contain a passive verb.
.TP
.BI -l " num
Print all sentences longer than
.IR num .
.TP
.BI -r " num
Print all sentences whose readability index is greater than
.IR num .
.TP
.B -P
Print parts of speech of the words in the document.
.PP
.I Diction
prints all sentences that contain phrases
from a list of bad or verbose word patterns.
Options peculiar to
.I diction
are
.TP \n(xxu
.BI -p " pfile
Use an additional private pattern file.
.TP
.B -n
Skip the standard pattern file.
.PP
.I Suggest
reads, from the standard input, phrases deprecated by
.I diction
and proposes alternatives.
.PP
.I Punct
reports sentences that appear to violate standard punctuation
rules or that contain doubled words.
.PP
.I Style,
.I diction,
and
.I wwb
expect documents prepared for
.IR troff (1)
with the
.IR ms (6)
macro package and the preprocessors
.I "pic, ideal, grap, eqn, refer,"
and
.IR tbl (1).
Two options override:
.TP \n(xxu
.B -mm
The document uses the
.B -mm
macro package.
.TP
.B -ml
The document uses the
.B -mm
macro package.
All
.IR mm -style
lists should be skipped (to avoid attempting to
parse nonsentences).
.SH FILES
.F /usr/bin/WWB/*
.br
.F /usr/lib/style/*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Directories
.F /n/bowell/usr/src/man/manw
and
.F /usr/spool/man/manw
contain manual pages for further 
.I wwb
subcommands; to print them, execute
.LR "man proofr" .
.br
.I
Unix System V Writer's Workbench Software Release 2.0
.I Documentation Set,
AT&T Select Code 302-949
.br
.IR deroff (1), 
.IR spell (1)
.SH BUGS
Use of non-standard formatting macros causes
incorrect sentence breaks.
.br
Imperative sentences cannot be recognized.
