.TH XD 1
.CT 1 files
.SH NAME
xd, od \(mi hex, octal, decimal, or ASCII dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xd
[
.I option ...
]
[
.BI - "format ...
] [
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B od
[
.B -bcdox
]
[
.I file
]
[
.BI + offset
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xd
concatenates and dumps the
.I files
(standard input by default)
in one or more formats.
Groups of 16 bytes are printed in each of the named formats, one
format per line.
Each line of output is prefixed by its address (byte offset)
in the input file.
The first line of output for each group is zero-padded; subsequent are blank-padded.
.PP
Formats other than
.B -c
are specified by pairs of characters telling size and style,
.L 4x
by default.
The sizes are
.TP \w'2\ or\ w\ \ \ 'u
.BR 1 " or " b
1-byte units.
.PD0
.TP
.BR 2 " or " w
2-byte units.
.TP
.BR 4 " or " l
4-byte units.
.PD
.PP
The styles are
.TP \w'2\ or\ w\ \ \ 'u
.B o
Octal.
.PD0
.TP
.B x
Hexadecimal.
.TP
.B d
Decimal.
.PD
.PP
Other options are
.TP
.B -c
Format as
.B 1x
but print
.SM ASCII
representations or C escape sequences where possible.
.TP
.BI -a style
Print file addresses in the given style (and size 4).
.TP
.B -s
Reverse (swab) the order of bytes in each group of 4 before printing.
.TP
.B -r
Print repeating groups of identical 16-byte sequences as the first group
followed by an asterisk.
.PP
.I Od
dumps a
.I file
or the standard input in
one or more formats as
selected by the first argument, octal by default.
.PP
The format characters mean
.TP
.B  b
Bytes in octal.
.PD0
.TP
.B  c
Bytes in 
.SM ASCII
with C escapes and 3-digit octal for other characters.
.TP
.B d
16-bit words in decimal.
.TP
.B  o
16-bit words in octal.
.TP
.B  x
16-bit words in hex.
.PP
The
.I offset
argument tells where in the file
to begin dumping.
The offset, normally interpreted
in octal, is interpreted in hexadecimal if it
begins with
.L x
or
.LR 0x ,
and in decimal if it ends with 
.L .
or
.LR .b .
If it ends in
.LR b ,
it is multiplied by 512.
The preceding
.BR + 
may be omitted if
.I file
is present.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR adb (1),
.IR strings (1),
.IR vis (1)
.SH BUGS
The various output formats don't line up properly in the output of
.I xd.
.br
A spurious zero byte reported by
.I od
at the end 
of odd-length files is betrayed by the correctly
printed final address.
.br
The
.I offset
is ineffectual if 
.IR lseek (2)
won't work on the
.I file.
.br
On some raw devices offsets must be a multiple
of the natural block size.
