.\"@(#)uucleanup.1m	5.2
.TH UUCLEANUP 1M
.SH NAME
uucleanup \- uucp spool directory clean-up
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/uucp/uucleanup
[ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uucleanup\^
will scan the spool directories for old files
and take appropriate action to remove them in a
useful way:
Inform the requestor of send/receive requests for
systems that can't be reached.
Return mail, which can't be delivered, to
the sender.
Delete or execute rnews for rnews type files
(depending on where the news originated\-\-locally or
remotely).
Remove all other files.
In addition, there is provision to warn users of requests that
have been waiting for a given number of days (default 1).
.PP
The following options are available.
If the option is not specified on the command line, the default value
will be used.
.TP
.BI \-C time\^
Any C. files greater or equal to \fItime\fR days old will be
removed with appropriate information to the requestor.
(default 7 days)
.TP
.BI \-D time\^
Any D. files greater or equal to \fItime\fR days old will be
removed.
An attempt will be made to deliver mail messages and
execute rnews when appropriate.
(default 7 days)
.TP
.BI \-W time\^
Any C. files equal to \fItime\fR days old will
cause a mail message to be sent to the requestor warning about
the delay in contacting the remote.
The message includes the \fIJOBID\fR, and in the case of mail,
the mail message.
The administrator may include a message line telling who to
call to check the problem (-m option).
(default 1 days)
.TP
.BI \-X time\^
Any X. files greater or equal to \fItime\fR days old will be
removed.
The D. files are probably not present (if they were, the X. could get
executed).
But if there are D.s, they will be taken care of by D. processing.
(default 2 days)
.TP
.BI \-m string\^
This line will be included in the warning message generated by the
\-W option.
The default line is
.br
.sp
See you local administrator to locate the problem.
.TP
.BI \-o time\^
Other files whose age is more than
.I time\^
days will be deleted.
(default 2 days)
.TP
.BI \-s system\^
Execute for \fIsystem\fR spool directory only.
.PP
This program is typically started by the shell uudemon.cleanup,
which should be started by
.IR cron (1M).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 1.1i
/usr/lib/uucp
directory with commands used by
.I uucleanup\^
internally
.TP
/usr/spool/uucp
spool directory
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
cron(1M), uucp(1C), uux(1C).
.\"	@(#)
