.\"@(#)uustat.1c	?.?
.TH UUSTAT 1C
.SH NAME
uustat \- uucp status inquiry and job control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uustat
.RB [ \-a]
or
.RB [ \-m]
or
.RB [ \-p]
or
.RB [ \-q]
or
.RB [ \-k \^jobid]
or
.RB [ \-r \^jobid]
.br
.B uustat
.RB [ \-s \^system]
.RB [ \-u \^user]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uustat\^
will display the status of, or cancel, previously specified
.I uucp\^
commands, or provide general status on
.I uucp\^
connections to other systems.
The following
.I options\^
are recognized:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B \-a\^
output all jobs in queue.
.TP 10
.BI \-k jobid\^
Kill the
.I uucp\^
request whose job identification is
.IR jobid .
The killed
.I uucp\^
request must belong to the person
issuing the
.I uustat\^
command
unless one is the super-user.
.TP 10
.B \-m\^
Report the status of accessibility of all machines.
.TP
.B \-p\^
Execute a ``ps -flp'' for all the process-ids that are in
the lock files.
.TP
.B \-q\^
List the jobs queued for each machine.
If a status file exists for the machine, its date, time and
status information are reported.
In addition, if a number appears in () next to the number of C or X
files, it is the age in days of the oldest C./X. file for that system.
The Retry field represents the number of hours until the next possible call.
The Count is the number of failure attempts.
NOTE: for systems with a moderate number of outstanding jobs, this
could take 30 seconds or more of real-time to execute.
.TP 10
.BI \-r jobid\^
Rejuvenate
.I jobid\^.
The files associated with
.I jobid\^
are touched so that 
their modification time is set to the current time.
This prevents the cleanup demon
from deleting the job until the jobs modification
time reaches the limit imposed by the demon.
.TP 10
.BI \-s sys\^
Report the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests for remote system
.IR sys .
.TP 10
.BI \-u user\^
Report the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests issued by
.IR user .
.PD
.PP
When no options are given,
.I uustat\^
outputs the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests issued by the current user.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 1.5i
/usr/spool/uucp/*
spool directories
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
uucp(1C).
.\"	@(#)uustat.1c	?.?
