.\"@(#)uux.1c	5.2
.TH UUX 1C
.SH NAME
uux \- unix to unix command execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uux
[
options
]
command-string
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uux\^
will gather zero or more files from various systems,
execute a command on a specified system
and then send standard output to a file on a specified
system.
Note that, for security reasons, many installations will
limit the list of
commands executable on behalf of an incoming request from
.IR uux .
Many sites will permit little more than
the receipt of mail (see
.IR mail (1))
via 
.IR uux .
.PP
The \fIcommand-string\fP is made up of one or more arguments that look
like a Shell command line,
except that the command and file names
may be prefixed by
.IB system-name !\fR.\fP
A null \fIsystem-name\fP is interpreted as the local system.
.PP
File names may be one of
.IP
(1) a full path name;
.IP
(2) a path name preceded by
.BI ~ xxx\^
where
.I xxx\^
is a login name on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's login directory;
.br
.IP
(3) anything else is prefixed by the current directory.
.PP
As an example, the command
.IP
uux "\^!diff usg!/usr/dan/file1 pwba!/a4/dan/file2 > !~/dan/file.diff\^"
.PP
will get the \fBfile1\fP and \fBfile2\fP files
from the ``usg'' and ``pwba'' machines,
execute a
.I diff\^
command
and put the results in \fBfile.diff\fP in the 
local PUBDIR/dan/ directory.
.PP
Any special shell characters such as \fB<>;\(bv\fP should be quoted either
by quoting the entire \fIcommand-string\fP, or quoting the special
characters as individual arguments.
.PP
.I Uux\^
will attempt to get all files to the execution system.
For files that are output files, the file name must be escaped using
parentheses.
For example, the command
.IP
uux a!cut -f1 b!/usr/file \\(c!/usr/file\\)
.PP
get \fB/usr/file\fP from system ``b'' and send it to system ``a'',
perform a \fIcut\fP command on that file
and send the result of the 
.I cut
command to system ``c''.
.PP
.I Uux\^
will notify you by mail if the requested command on the remote
system was disallowed.
This notification can be turned off by the \fB\-n\fP option.
.PP
The following \fIoptions\fP are interpreted by
.IR uux :
.TP .5i
.B \-
The standard input to
.I uux
is made the standard input to the
.IR command-string .
.TP .5i
.BI \-a name
Use
.I name
as the user identification replacing the initiator user-id.
(Notification will be returned to the user.)
.TP .5i
.B \-b
Return standard input to the command if the exit status is non-zero.
.TP .5i
.B \-c
Don't copy local file to the spool directory for transfer to the remote
machine (default).
.TP .5i
.B \-C
Force the copy of local files to the spool directory for transfer.
.TP .5i
.BI \-g grade\^
Grade is a single letter/number;
lower ASCII sequence characters will cause the job to be transmitted
earlier during a particular conversation.
.TP .5i
.B \-j
Output the jobid
\s-1ASCII\s+1 string on the standard output which is the job identification.
This job identification can be used by
.I uustat\^
to obtain the status 
or terminate a job.
.TP .5i
.B \-n
Do not notify the user if the comand fails.
.TP .5i
.B \-p
Same as \-:
The standard input to
.I uux
is made the standard input to the
.IR command-string .
.TP .5i
.B \-r
Don't start the file transfer, just queue the job.
.TP .5i
.BI \-s file\^
Report status of the transfer in
.I file.\^
.TP .5i
.BI \-x debug-level\^
Produce debugging output on stdout.
The debug_level is a number between 0 and 9;
higher numbers give more detailed information.
.TP .5i
.B \-z
Notify the user if the command succeeds.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 22
/usr/lib/uucp/spool
spool directories
.TP
/usr/lib/uucp/\(**
other data and programs
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
uucp(1C).
.SH WARNINGS
Only the first command of a shell pipeline may
have a
.IB system-name !\fR.
All other commands are executed on the system of the first
command.
.br
The use of the shell metacharacter
.B \(**
will probably not do what you want it to do.
The shell tokens
.B <<
and
.B >>
are not implemented.
.PP
The execution of commands on remote systems takes place in
an execution directory known to the uucp system.
All files required for the execution will be put into this
directory unless they already reside on that machine.
Therefore, the simple file name (without path or machine reference)
must be unique within the uux request.
The following command will NOT work:
.IP
uux "a!diff  b!/usr/dan/xyz c!/usr/dan/xyz > !xyz.diff"
.PP
but the command
.IP
uux "a!diff  a!/usr/dan/xyz c!/usr/dan/xyz > !xyz.diff"
.PP
will work.
(If \fIdiff\fR is a permitted command.)
.SH BUGS
Protected files and files that are in protected directories
that are owned by the requestor can be sent in commands using
.IR uux .
However, if the requestor is root, and the directory is not searchable
by "other" or the file is not readable by "other",
the request will fail due to a bug in setuid().
.\"	@(#)
