.TH BACKUP 8
.CT 1 sa_nonmortals
.SH NAME
backup \- backup client administration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/backup/sel
.PP
.B /usr/lib/backup/fcheck
.I maxsize
.I maxdays
.I files ...
.PP
.B /usr/lib/backup/act
[
.I stat
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
These programs select and back up files
to the incremental file backup system,
.IR backup (1).
.PP
.I Sel
prints on the standard output
a list of filenames that might need to be backed up.
The initial version
picks out files that have been changed in the past few days,
skipping huge files
and eliding boring names like
.BR core .
.I Sel
is a shell script;
the local administrator is expected to customize it.
.PP
.I Fcheck
is a fast,
specialized file scanning program,
used by
.IR sel .
It examines each of the
.IR files ,
descending into directories,
and prints the name of each file
that has been changed in the last
.I maxdays
days and is smaller than
.I maxsize
kilobytes.
Symbolic links are followed when presented as arguments,
examined but not followed otherwise.
.PP
.I Act
reads a list of filenames from the standard input.
It searches the backup database
.IR backup (5)
for the current version of each file,
and backs up files that aren't registered.
.PP
By default,
.I act
sends errors by
.IR mail (1)
to user
.BR backup .
If the
.I stat
argument is non-empty,
errors and additional comforting chatter
are printed on the standard output instead.
.PP
One way to request automatic backups is to run
.IP
.L
/usr/lib/backup/sel | /usr/lib/backup/act
.LP
regularly from
.IR cron (8).
Particular files may be backed up by hand at any time
by running
.I act
with a list of filenames.
There are no special permissions involved;
any user may run
.IR act .
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR backup (1),
.IR backup (5)
.br
A. Hume, `The File Motel: An Owner's Manual',
this manual,
Volume 2
