.TH GETTY 8
.CT 1 sa_auto secur
.SH NAME
getty  \- set terminal mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/getty
[
.I char
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getty
is invoked by
.IR  init (8)
after a terminal is opened.
While reading the user's name
.I getty
attempts to adapt the system to the speed and type of terminal
being used.
.PP
.I Init
calls
.I getty
with an argument specified by the
.IR ttys (5)
entry for the terminal line.
The argument
.I char
determines the line speed
and other characteristics;
see below.
.I Getty
then types a banner identifying the system (from
.FR /etc/whoami )
and the
.L login:
message.
The user's name is then read, a character at a time.
If a null character is received, it is assumed to be the result
of the user pushing the `break' (`interrupt') key.
The speed is then
changed to another baud rate and 
.L login:
is typed again.
Successive breaks cycle through a set of speeds.
.PP
The user's name is terminated by a newline or
carriage return.
The latter results in the system being set to
treat carriage returns appropriately (see
.IR  ioctl (2)).
.PP
Finally,
.IR login (8)
is called with the user's name as argument.
.PP
Here are the possible values for
.IR char .
If more than one speed is given,
the first speed is used initially;
others are selected by successive depressions of the
BREAK key.
Other things,
like delays and tab expansion,
are set in various ways as well.
.PP
.de fq
\f5\\$1	\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
.nf
char	speed
.fq 0 300-1200-150-110
.fq 2 9600
.fq 3 1200-300
.fq 4 300
.fq 5 300-1200
.fq 6 2400
.fq 7 4800
.fq 8 9600-1200-300
.fq 9 300-9600-1200
.fq a 2400-1200
.fq b 1200-2400
.fq j exta (usually 19200)
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR init (8), 
.IR login (8), 
.IR ioctl (2), 
.IR ttys (5)
