.TH IPCONFIG 8
.CT 1 sa_auto
.SH NAME
ipconfig, dkipconfig, udpconfig \- set up DARPA Internet protocols
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/ipc/mgrs/ipconfig
[
.B -m
.I mask
] [
.B -df
]
.I "ip-device localhost network"
.BI [ arp-device ]
.B &
.br
.B /usr/ipc/mgrs/dkipconfig
.I "gatemachine localhost remotehost"
.B &
.br
.B /usr/ipc/mgrs/udpconfig
.I udp-device
.B &
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ipconfig
activates the DARPA Internet protocol on a communications device,
with Internet address
.I localhost
for the host
and network address
.I network
for the device.
.PP
If
.I arp-device
is specified,
the ARP address resolution protocol
is started on that device.
Option
.B -d
causes
.I ipconfig
to print ARP requests on the standard output
as they are received.
.PP
Option
.B -m
declares a subnet mask
for the network reached through
.IR ip-device .
.I Mask
may be a four-piece IP address like
.L 255.255.255.0
or a 32-bit hexadecimal number like
.LR ffffff00 .
.PP
Option
.B -f
is a special workaround for networks with obsolete hosts.
It causes
.I ipconfig
to answer illegal ARP requests for the subnet's broadcast address
with an illegal Ethernet address,
to prevent broadcast storms.
.PP
.I Dkipconfig
places a network call to
.I gatemachine
and activates the IP protocol on the connection,
so that the remote machine becomes a gateway for the caller's IP traffic.
.I Localhost
becomes the calling machine's Internet address
through this IP interface;
.I remotehost
is the Internet address
to which local IP packets should be sent
to reach the gateway.
.PP
.I Ipconfig
and
.I dkipconfig
record unusual events and errors in
log files
.F /usr/ipc/log/ipconfig
and
.FR /usr/ipc/log/dkipconfig .
.PP
.I Udpconfig
activates the UDP datagram protocol
on the named
.IR udp-device ,
usually
.FR /dev/ipudp .
Only one
.I udpconfig
is needed for the entire collection of IP networks.
.PP
These programs are usually run once from
.IR rc (8).
.SH EXAMPLES
The following calls start IP
on system
.B fs
on the first Interlan Ethernet controller,
with ARP active;
arrange for machine
.B nj/astro/research
to pass IP packets to
.BR fs ;
and activate
UDP.
.EX
/usr/ipc/mgrs/ipconfig /dev/il00 fs mh-astro-net /dev/il01 &
/usr/ipc/mgrs/dkipconfig nj/astro/research fs-dk research-dk127 &
/usr/ipc/mgrs/udpconfig /dev/ipudp &
.EE
.SH FILES
.F /usr/ipc/log/ipconfig
.br
.F /usr/ipc/log/dkipconfig
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR con (1),
.IR qns (7),
.IR route (8),
.IR tcpmgr (8)
