.TH KMC 8
.CT 1 sa_nonmortals
.SH NAME
kmc, kdiload, kmcdump \- control KMC11 input/output processors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/kdiload
[
.I dev
[
.I file
] ]
.PP
.B /etc/kmcdump
[
.I dev
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
These commands control the KMC11-B
microprocessors
used for Datakit protocol processing.
.PP
.I Kdiload
resets KMC device
.IR dev ,
copies the microcode in
.IR file
into the KMC's memory,
and starts the KMC.
.I Dev
may be a pathname
or a single character key
identifying the KMC;
the default is
.LR 2 .
.I File
defaults to that specified in
.F /etc/kmctab
if a single character key is used,
.F /etc/dkk.dubhi
otherwise.
.PP
.I Kmcdump
stops the KMC
and copies its state into files
in the working directory.
.I Dev
may be a single character key
or a pathname;
the default is
.LR 2 .
The KMC's memory is copied to the file
.BI core. k . nnn\c
,
where
.I k
is the keyletter
and
.I nnn
is some number;
the state of the KMC's registers and some trace information from Unix
is written to
.BI regs. k . nnn\c
\&.
.PP
These commands search the file
.F /etc/kmctab
for KMC devices and microcode files.
The file contains lines of
three blank-separated fields:
.PP
.RS
single character identifying this KMC
.br
full pathname of the KMC device file
.br
full pathname of the microcode to be used in this KMC
.RE
.PP
The KMC with key
.I K
uses Datakit special files with names like
.BI /dev/dk/dk K 03\c
\&.
If there is only one KMC for Datakit,
its key is
.LR 2 .
If the only KMC is the only Datakit interface in a machine,
its key is
.LR 2 ,
and its special files look like
.BR /dev/dk/dk03 .
.SH FILES
.F /etc/kmctab
.br
.F /bin/kasb
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR dkmgr (8)
.SH BUGS
For the moment,
the only permissible keys are
.L 0
and
.LR 2 .
The KMC and Datakit filename conventions
are arcane,
and based on obsolete notions;
they should be replaced.
