.TH MKFS 8
.CT 1 sa_nonmortals
.SH NAME
mkfs, mkbitfs, mklost+found \- construct a disk file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/mkfs
.I special size
[
.I spacing cylsize
]
.PP
.B /etc/mkbitfs
.I special size
[
.I spacing cylsize
]
.PP
.B /etc/mklost+found
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mkfs
.RI ( mkbitfs )
constructs a regular (bitmapped) file system on the block device
.IR special .
.I Size
is the number of 1KB (4KB)
blocks on the special file.
Values of
.I size
for various special files, e.g.
.IR ra (4),
are given in Section 4.
The new file system has a single empty directory and a
number of inodes that depends on the size.
.PP
.I Spacing
and
.I cylsize
are used for block allocation.
.I Spacing
is the preferred distance between successive blocks of a file;
.I cylsize
is the number of blocks the system can use
without causing a disk seek.
Suboptimal default values
are built into the programs;
some reasonable values are suggested below.
.PP
.I Mklost+found
creates a directory called
.B lost+found
in the working directory
with several empty slots.
This directory is used as a repository
for disconnected files
recovered by
.IR fsck (8)
and
.IR chuck (8).
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
/etc/mkbitfs /dev/ra03 31231
/etc/mount /dev/ra03 /mnt
cd /mnt
/etc/mklost+found
.EE
.br
.ns
.IP
Notice the change of units between
.IR ra (4)
and here: 31231 = 249848\(**512/4096.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR filsys (5),
.IR fsck (8)
.SH BUGS
.I Fsck
should make
.I lost+found
automatically
when needed.
.SH MACHINE DEPENDENCIES
Here are empirically good values for 
.I spacing
and
.I cylsize
for VAX hardware.
Minor changes, such as a new version of a controller,
can invalidate them.
To be certain,
run your own experiments.
Cylinder size doesn't seem to matter much
on RA81 disks.
On RA90s, it doesn't matter as long as it is large.
.PP
.2C
Bitmapped (4K) file systems
.nf
.if n .ta 6 +6 +6
space	cyl	disk, controller, CPU
2	500	RA90, KDB50, VAX 8550
4	500	RA90, UDA50, VAX 8550
2	40	RA81, KDB50, VAX 8550
3	40	RA81, old KDB50, VAX 8550
3	40	RA81, UDA50, VAX 8550
3	105	Wren VI, Viking UDD, VAX 8550
4	40	RA81, UDA50, VAX-11/750
3	40	RA60, UDA50, VAX-11/750
3	40	RA81, KDA50, MicroVAX II
1	40	RD54, RQDX3, MicroVAX II
3	40	RA81, KDA50, MicroVAX III
Old-style (1K) file systems
space	cyl	disk, controller, CPU
5	357	RA81, KDB50, VAX 8550
7	357	RA81, UDA50, VAX-11/780
7	357	RA81, KDA50, MicroVAX II
7	128	RD54, RQDX3, MicroVAX II
6	357	RA81, KDA50, MicroVAX III
.sp5
.1C
