.TH MKPKG 8
.CT 1 comm_mach
.SH NAME
mkpkg, inspkg, seal, unseal \- package files for automatic software distribution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkpkg
[
.I option ...
]
.I file ...
.PP
.B inspkg
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B seal
[
.I option
]
[
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B unseal
[
.I option
]
[
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
These programs are used by
.IR ship (8)
to keep files identical across machines.
.PP
.I Mkpkg
packages
.I files
and writes the result on the standard output.
.I Inspkg
installs the named packages
or the standard input.
.PP
Non-existent files given to 
.I mkpkg
are deleted upon installation.
Directories are copied with all their contents.
Hard links are reproduced.
Symbolic links and special files
are reproduced with the same inode contents.
File modification and access times and owner and group names
are reproduced as far as possible.
Old versions of files are removed before installation:
.I inspkg
needs write permission in containing directories.
.PP
Options for both
.I mkpkg
and
.IR inspkg :
.nr xx \w'\f5-K \f2keyfile '
.TP \n(xxu
.B -v
Place running commentary on the standard error file.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI -D path1 = path2
Pretend that any pathname beginning with
.I path1
really begins with
.IR path2 .
Relative pathnames are extended to full pathnames before comparison.
.PP
Options for
.IR mkpkg ;
only one may occur:
.TP \n(xxu
.BI -x command
Include in the package instructions to execute the shell
.I command
after all files have been installed.
.I Command 
is unaffected by option
.BR -D .
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI -X file
Include in the package instructions to
run the shell script
.I file
after all files have been installed.
The file name is subject to option
.BR -D .
.PP
Options for
.IR inspkg :
.TP \n(xxu
.B -n
Skip the actual installation, but verify
the input packages and produce a backup if requested.
.br
.ns
.TP
.B
-b
Write on the standard output a backup package
that contains whatever was destroyed.
.PP
A package is an
.IR ar (1)
archive containing an extra 
.SM ASCII
file named
.FR Instructions .
.PP
.I Seal
concatenates the named
.I files
or the standard input
onto the standard output in 
an error-detecting form suitable for shipment by
.IR mail (1).
.I Unseal
reverses the process, concatenating copies of all the
original inputs onto the standard output.
When
.IR asd (8)
uses
.IR uucp (1), 
it sends sealed packages.
.PP
A sealed file is printable, has
fewer than 128 characters per line, and has no lines
consisting of a single period.
The first line is
.L !<seal>
and the last one begins with
.LR !end .
Other lines, such as mail headers, can be added to
either end of a sealed file
without hindering
.IR unseal .
.PP
Options for 
.I seal
and
.IR unseal :
.TP \n(xxu
.B -k
A key will be demanded to encrypt the
checksum calculation.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI -K " keyfile"
Same, but taking the first line of
.I keyfile
as the key.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ar (1), 
.IR cpio (1), 
.IR tar (1), 
.IR bundle (1),
.IR ship (8),
.IR ar (5),
.IR asd (8)
.SH BUGS
The pipeline
.L mkpkg ... | inspkg
fails if input and output files overlap.
.br
.I Inspkg
fills any holes in files.
