.TH NETSTAT 8
.CT 1 sa_nonmortals
.SH NAME
netstat, dkstat \- show network status for internet and datakit networks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B netstat
[
.B \-acCirRst
]
[
.I system
]
[
.I core
]
.PP
.B dkstat
[
.I interval
[
.I count
]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Netstat 
displays internet
(TCP/IP and UDP/IP)
traffic and configuration
data.
Without options,
it lists all TCP and UDP connection assignments.
A single option
changes the listing:
.TP
.B -a
known mappings between internet names and
Ethernet addresses.
.TP
.B -c
all TCP and UDP connection assignments
(the default).
.TP
.B -C
detailed state of active TCP connections.
.TP
.B -i
active IP interfaces.
.TP
.B -n
display numeric internet addresses rather than host and
network names.
.TP
.B -s
protocol statistics.
.TP
.B -r
routing tables.
.TP
.B -R
routing tables,
including deleted entries
(for debugging).
.TP
.BI -t buf
running trace of
packets passing through
.IR buf :
.L il
for the Interlan Ethernet controller,
.L qe
for the DEQNA,
.L tcp
(the default)
for all packets passing through TCP.
.PP
The arguments 
.I system
and
.I core
are substitutes for the defaults
.F /unix
and
.FR /dev/kmem .
.PP
.I Dkstat
reports the number of bytes received and sent over
the Datakit network, together with error reports if any occurred.
The first report is cumulative since a reboot.
Further reports may be requested every
.I interval
seconds; these reports are incremental.
.PP
The optional
.I count
argument restricts the number of reports.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR "nlist /unix failed" :
.I netstat
could not find pertinent system information,
perhaps because this system isn't set up for TCP/IP.
