.TH POSTSCRIPT 8
.CT 1 sa_auto
.SH NAME
dpost, postdaisy, postdmd, postprint \- filters to produce postscript
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/bin/postscript/dpost
[
.I option ...
] [
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B /usr/bin/postscript/postdaisy
[
.I option ...
] [
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B /usr/bin/postscript/postdmd
[
.I option ...
] [
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B /usr/bin/postscript/postprint
[
.I option ...
] [
.I file ...
]
.PP
.B /usr/bin/postscript/posttek
[
.I option ...
] [
.I file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
These programs convert files of various formats into
PostScript.
The input formats are
.nr xx \w'\fL-p\ \fImode\ 'u
.TP \n(xxu
.I dpost
.IR troff (1)
output
.TP
.I postdaisy
Diablo 1640 daisy-wheel
.TP
.I postdmd
.IR bitfile (9.5)
files, as produced by
.IR blitblt (9.1)
.TP
.I postprint
.SM
ASCII
text
.TP
.I posttek
Tektronix 4014 graphics
.PP
Except as noted,
the options are common to all the programs:
.TP \n(xxu
.BI \-c num
Print
.I num
copies of each page.
By default only one copy is printed.
.TP
.BI \-m num
Magnify each logical page by the factor
.I num.
Pages are scaled uniformly about the origin,
located near the upper left corner of
the page.
The default magnification is 1.0.
.TP
.BI \-n num
Print
.I num
logical pages on each piece of paper.
The default is 1.
.TP
.BI \-o list
Print only pages specified in
the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.
A range
.IB N - M
means pages
.I N
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.BI - N
means
from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final
.IB N -
means
from
.I N
to the end.
Print only pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated
.IR list .
The list contains single numbers
.I N
and ranges
.IB N1 \- N2.
A missing 
.I N1
means the lowest numbered page, a missing
.I N2
means the highest.
.TP
.BI \-p mode
Print
in
.I mode
.B p
(portrait)
or
.B l
(landscape).
The default is
.BR p .
.TP
.BI \-x num
Translate the origin
.I num
inches along the positive x axis.
By default,
the origin is
fixed near the
upper left corner of the page, with positive
x to the right and positive y down the page.
Positive
.I num
moves everything right.
The default offset is 0 inches.
.TP
.BI \-y num
Translate the origin
.I num
inches along the positive y axis.
Positive
.I num
moves text down the page.
The default offset is 0.
.TP
.BI \-A file
Append a simple accounting record to
.I file
after all input
.I files
have been successfully translated.
By default no accounting data is produced.
.TP
.BI \-L file
Use
.I file
as the PostScript prologue.
.TP
.BI \-f name
Print
.I files
using font
.I name.
Any PostScript font can be used,
but constant width fonts yield the best results.
The default font is Courier.
.RI ( postdaisy,
.IR postprint,
and
.IR posttek
only)
.TP
.BI \-f
Flip the sense of the bits in
.I files
before printing the bitmaps.
.RI ( postdmd
only)
.PP
In addition, three options allow the insertion of arbitrary PostScript
at controlled points in the translation process:
.TP \n(xxu
.BI \-C file
Copy
.I file
to the output file.
.I File
follows the prologue but
precedes any job initialization commands.
.I File
becomes part of the job's global environment
and must contain legitimate PostScript commands.
.TP
.BI \-P string
Like
.BR -C ,
using a
.I string
instead of the contents of a file.
.TP
.BI \-R action
Requests special
.I action
(e.g. manualfeed) on a per page or global basis.
The
.I action
string has the general form
.IB request : page : file,
from which 
.BI : page : file
or
.B : file
can be omitted.
An omitted or 0 page number
applies to all pages.
If file is omitted the request
lookup is done in 
.FR /usr/lib/postscript/ps.requests .
The collection of recognized requests can be modified or extended
by changing this file.
Multiple occurrences of the
.B \-R
option behave as expected.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/font/devpost/charlib/*
.TP
.F /usr/lib/font/devpost/*.out
.TP
.F /usr/lib/font/devpost/charlib/*
.TP
.F /usr/lib/postscript/*.ps
default prologues 
.TP
.F /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.pictures
.I troff
macros for PostScript
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR lp (1),
.IR postio (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status 2
usually means a syntax error in some input file.
.SH BUGS
Output files
will often violate Adobe's
file structuring conventions.
Pipe the output of
.I dpost
through
.I postreverse
to produce a minimally conforming PostScript file.
.PP
Although
.I dpost
can handle files formatted for any 
.IR troff
device, emulation is expensive and
can easily double the print time and the size of the output file.
.PP
No attempt has been made to implement the character sets
or fonts available on all devices supported by
.I troff.
Missing characters are replaced by white space;
unrecognized fonts are replaced by one of the Times fonts.
.PP
.I Dpost
requires an
.B x res
command before the first
.B x init
and any file data.
