.TH PSTAT 8
.CT 1 sa_mortals
.SH NAME
pstat \- print system facts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/pstat
[
.B \-afipstuxT
]
[
.I suboptions
]
[
.I file
]
[
.I namelist
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pstat
interprets the contents of certain system tables.
If
.I file
is given, the tables are sought there, otherwise
in
.FR /dev/kmem .
The required namelist is taken from
.IR namelist ,
default
.FR /unix .
Options are
.TP 
.B -a
Under
.BR -p ,
describe all process slots rather than just active ones.
.TP
.B -i
Print the inode table with the these headings:
.RS
.PD 0
.TF SIGNAL
.TP
.B LOC
The core location of this table entry.
.TP
.B FLAGS
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.TP
.B L
locked
.TP
.B U
modified time
.RI ( filsys (5))
must be corrected
.TP
.B A
access time must be corrected
.TP
.B O
file was opened
.TP
.B W
wanted by another process 
.RB ( L
flag is on)
.TP
.B T
contains an active text
.RE
.TP
.B CNT
Number of active references to this inode.
.TP
.B FS
File system type, see
.IR fmount (2).
.TP
.B DEVICE
Device number of file system in which
this inode resides.
.TP
.B INO
I-number within the file system.
.TP
.B MODE
Mode, see
.IR stat (2).
.TP
.B NLN
Number of links to this inode.
.TP
.B UID
Userid of owner.
.TP
.B SPTR
Core location of corresponding stream header,
0 if this is not a stream.
.TP
.B SIZ/DEV
Number of bytes in an ordinary file, or
device number of a special file.
.TP
.B MROOT
Core location of root inode
of file system mounted here,
0 if none.
.PD
.RE
.TP 0
.B -x
Print the text table with these headings:
.PD 0
.RS
.TF SIGNAL
.TP
.B LOC
The core location of this table entry.
.TP
.B FLAGS
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.TP
.B P
resulted from demand-page-from-inode exec format, see
.IR exec (2)
.TP
.B T
traced through
.IR proc (4)
.TP
.B W
text not yet written to swap device
.TP
.B L
loading in progress
.TP
.B K
locked
.TP
.B w
wanted 
.RB ( L
flag is on)
.RE
.TP
.B DADDR
Disk address in swap, in multiples of 512 bytes.
.TP
.B CADDR
Head of a linked list of loaded processes using this text segment.
.TP
.B RSS
Size of physical memory occupied
by text segment,
in multiples of 512 bytes.
.TP
.B SIZE
Size of text segment, in multiples of 512 bytes.
.TP
.B IPTR
Core location of corresponding inode.
.TP
.B CNT
Number of processes using this text segment.
.TP
.B CCNT
Number of processes in core using this text segment.
.PD
.RE
.TP 0
.B -p
Print process table for active processes with these headings:
.RS
.TP
.B LOC
The core location of this table entry.
.PD 0
.TF SIGNAL
.TP
.B S
Run state encoded thus:
.RS
.TP
.B 0
no process
.TP
.B 1
waiting for some event
.TP
.B 3
runnable
.TP
.B 4
being created
.TP
.B 5
being terminated
.TP
.B 6
stopped under trace
.RE
.TP
.B F
Miscellaneous state variables, or-ed together (hexadecimal):
.RS
.TF SIGNAL
.TP
.B 0000001
loaded in memory
.TP
.B 0000002
special system process (swapper or pager)
.TP
.B 0000004
being swapped out
.TP
.B 0000008
obscure swapout flag
.TP
.B 0000010
traced
.TP
.B 0000020
used in tracing
.TP
.B 0000040
locked in core
.TP
.B 0000080
waiting for pagein
.TP
.B 0000100
prevented from swapping during
.IR fork (2)
.TP
.B 0000200
gathering pages for raw i/o
.TP
.B 0000400
exiting
.TP
.B 0008000
associated text is demand paged from file
.TP
.B 0030000
anomalous paging behaviour expected,
see
.IR vlimit
in
.IR deprecated (2)
.TP
.B 0040000
in a sleep which will time out
.TP
.B 0400000
in
.IR select (2)
.TP
.B 0800000
traced via
.IR proc (4)
.TP
.B 1000000
i/o via
.IR proc
in progress
.TP
.B 2000000
stop on exec
.TP
.B 4000000
wanted by
.I proc
after pagein
.RE
.TF SIGNAL
.TP
.B ADDR
The core location of the page table entry for the first page of the `u-area.'
.TP
.B PRI
Scheduling priority;
smaller numbers run first.
.TP
.B SIG
Signals received; signals 1-32 coded in bits 0-31.
.TP
.B UID
Real userid.
.TP
.B SLP
Time blocked in seconds;
times over 127 coded as 127.
.TP
.B TIM
Time resident in seconds;
times over 127 coded as 127.
.TP
.B CPU
Weighted integral of CPU time, for scheduler.
.TP
.B NI
Nice level,
see
.IR nice (2).
.TP
.B PGRP
Process group number.
.TP
.B PID
Process ID number.
.TP
.B PPID
Process ID of parent process.
.TP
.B RSS
Number of physical page frames allocated
to this process.
.TP
.B SRSS
RSS at last swap, 0 if never swapped.
.TP
.B SIZE
Virtual size of process image (data+stack) in multiples of 512 bytes.
.TP
.B WCHAN
Event address if waiting.
.TP
.B LINK
Pointer to next entry in list of runnable processes.
.TP
.B TEXTP
If text is pure, pointer to location of text table entry.
.TP
.B CLKT
Countdown for
.IR alarm (2)
measured in seconds.
.PD
.RE
.TP 0
.B -u
Print information about a user process;
the next argument is its address as given
by
.L ADDR
under
.B -p
above.
The process must be in main memory, or the file used can
be a core image
.RI ( core (5))
and the address 0.
.TP
.B -f
Print the open file table with these headings:
.PD0
.RS
.TF SIGNAL
.TP
.B LOC
The core location of this table entry.
.PD 0
.TP
.B FLG
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.TP
.B R
open for reading
.TP
.B W
open for writing
.RE
.TP
.B CNT
Number of processes that know this open file.
.TP
.B INO
The core location of the inode table entry for this file.
.TP
.B OFFS
The file offset, see
.IR lseek (2).
.PD
.RE
.TP 0
.B -s
Print information about swap space usage:
the number of 1024 byte pages used
and free,
and the number of pages belonging
to text images.
.TP
.B -T
Print the number of used and free slots in several system tables;
useful to see if they are nearly full.
.SH FILES
.TF /dev/kmem
.TP
.F /unix
namelist
.TP
.F /dev/kmem
default source of tables
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ps (1),
.IR stat (2), 
.IR filsys (5)
.br
M. J. Bach,
.IR "The Design of the UNIX Operating System" ,
Prentice-Hall, 1986
.SH BUGS
This program is never up to date.
