.TH QUOT 8
.CT 1 sa_mortals
.SH NAME
quot, findo \- file system usage and hogs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/quot
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I filesystem
]
.PP
.BI findo
[
.B -f
]
[
.B -n 
]
[
.B -u
.I userid
]
.I device mount-directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Quot
prints the number of blocks in the named
.I filesystem
device currently owned by each user.
If no
.I filesystem
is named,
.F /dev/usr
is assumed.
The options are:
.TP
.B -n
Use as in the example below to list all files and owners.
.TP
.B -c
Print three columns giving file size in blocks, number of
files of that size, and cumulative total of blocks
in files of that size or smaller.
.TP
.B -f
Print count of number of files as well as space owned by each user.
.TP
.B -b
Print space-time product in block-years in addition to space owned by
each user.
.PP
.I Findo
discovers files you might want to delete on the
given block
.I device,
which must be mounted on the given directory.
It lists, on the standard output, the
sizes, ages in days, and names of files 
with any of the following characteristics:
.IP -
.IR Troff (1)
output files older than 24 hours.
The names are marked
.L troff:
in the output.
.IP -
Week-old files named
.BR core ,
.BR a.out ,
.BR mon.out ,
.BR .pilog ,
.BR junk* ,
.BR temp* ,
.BR ed.hup ,
.BR qed.hup:* ,
.BR jim.recover ,
.BR sam.save ,
.BR sam.err ,
.BR ~~sam~~ ,
.BR [a-z] ,
.BR dead.letter ,
.BR foo[0-9]* ,
.BR rst[0-9]+ ,
.BR .jx* ,
.BR *.dvi ,
and files whose names
resemble 
.IR apnews (7)
spool entries.
.IP -
Files over a month old named
.BR *.o .
The names are marked
.LR old: .
.IP -
Files owned by users selected with option
.BR -u ;
the names are marked
.LR user: .
.PP
The options are
.TP
.B -f
List files owned by users not in the password file.
.TP
.BI -u " userid
List files over 2 days old owned by the user with the given numeric
.I userid.
.TP
.B -n
List files of any age owned by the specified users.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.L
ncheck filesystem | sort -n | quot -n filesystem
List all files and their owners.
.SH FILES
.F /etc/passwd
to get user names
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR ls (1), 
.IR du (1),
.IR icheck (8),
.IR fstab (5)
.SH BUGS
.I Quot
counts holes in files as if they actually occupied space.
.br
Patterns specifying the names and ages are compiled into
.I findo.
.br
.I Findo's
age distinction for files owned by a specific user is a 
historical dreg.
