.TH SMTP 8
.CT 1 sa_auto
.SH NAME
smtp, smtpqer, smtpd, smtpsched \- handle simple mail transfer protocol 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/upas/smtp
[
.I option ...
]
.I replyaddr
.I dest
.I recipient ...
.PP
.B /usr/lib/upas/smtpqer
[
.I option ...
]
.I replyaddr
.I dest
.I recipient ...
.PP
.B /usr/lib/upas/smtpd
[
.B -n
] [
.B -H
.I host
]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/upas/smtpsched
[
option ...
] [
.I queue ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Smtp
reads a mail message from the standard input,
and sends it with the Internet SMTP protocol
to the named
.I recipients
at
network address
.IR dest .
.I Dest
has default network
.B tcp
and default
service
.B tcp.25
(the conventional Internet SMTP port).
Error reports are mailed to local address
.IR replyaddr .
.PP
.I Smtp
operates in two modes, `Internet' (default) and `Unix'.
In Internet mode
.I recipient
addresses should be in full domain form.
.L From:
and
.L Date:
headers will be inserted as necessary
to conform to Internet standards.
In Unix mode
addresses and message contents
are not touched.
The options are
.TP
.B -u
Run in Unix mode.
.TP
.BI -H " host"
Use
.I host
as the name of the sending system (taken from
.IR whoami (5)
by default).
.TP
.BI -d " domain
Append the specified domain suffix to
incomplete addresses.
.PP
.I Smtpqer
reads a mail message from the standard input
and stashes it away
to be sent later
by
.IR smtpsched .
By default,
.I smtpsched
is started immediately;
option
.B -n
prevents this.
Other options and arguments are the same as for
.IR smtp .
.PP
.I Smtpd
receives a message by
speaking the server part of SMTP
on the standard input and output.
The message is stashed in a queue for later delivery
as by
.IR smtpqer .
Option
.B -n
prevents
.I smtpsched
from running immediately;
option
.B -H
is as for
.I smtp.
.PP
.I Smtpsched
processes the queues assembled by
.I smtpqer
and
.IR smtpd ,
calling
.IR mail (1)
for local messages and
.I smtp
for others.
It should be run occasionally from
.IR cron (8).
.PP
The
.I queue
arguments name particular queue directories to be processed;
if no queue is named,
all queues are processed.
The options are
.TF "-s\0nproc"
.TP
.BI -w " days"
Send a warning about each message more than
.I days
old to the reply address.
.TP
.BI -r " days"
Mail an error reply about each message more than
.I days
old,
and discard the message.
.TP
.BI -s " nproc"
Do not run more than
.I nproc
simultaneous copies of
.I smtpsched
started with this option.
.TP
.B -c
Remove empty directories and inconsistent files.
.TP
.B -t
Log actions without performing them. 
.TP
.B -C
Process `C' command files
.RI ( smtp
calls) only.
.TP
.B -X
Process `X' command files
.RI ( rmail
calls) only.
.TP
.B -v
Enable verbose logging.
.PD
.PP
The queues are kept in subdirectories of
.FR /usr/spool/smtpq ,
named by splitting the lower case remote system name
into components separated by
periods,
concatenating the last two or fewer components,
taking the last 14 characters,
and stripping leading periods.
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/spool/smtpq/smtpqsched.log
.TP
.B /usr/spool/smtpq
spooling directory
.TP
.B /usr/spool/smtpq/smtpqsched.log
logging
.TP
.B /usr/spool/smtpq/.consumers
list of process IDs running
.I smptqsched -s
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR mail (1),
.IR upas (8),
.IR smstat (8)
.br
DARPA standards RFC 822, RFC 976
