.TH UUCICO 8
.CT 1 sa_auto
.SH NAME
uucico, uusched, uuxqt, kick, debug  \- uucp file transport and execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/uucp/uucico
[
.B -r1
.B -s
.I system
]
[
.B -x
.I debug
]
[
.B -d
.I spool_directory
]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/uucp/uusched
[
.B -x
.I debug
]
[
.B -u
.I debug
]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/uucp/kick
.I system
.PP
.B /usr/lib/uucp/debug
.I system
.PP
.B /usr/lib/uucp/uuxqt
[
.B -s
.I system
]
[
.B -x
.I debug
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uucico
transfers files between systems
for
.IR uucp (1).
It is normally invoked by
.I login
for
an incoming connection
(a slave),
or by
.IR uusched
to call out to another system
(a master).
The options are
.TP \w'\f5-s\ \fIsystem\ 'u
.B -r1
This is a master;
option 
.B -s
is required.
In the absence of
.B -r1
the process is a slave and expects to speak to a master on
standard input and standard output.
.TP \w'\f5-s\ \fIsystem\ 'u
.BI -s " system
Call the named
.I system.
.TP
.BI -x " debug
Turn on debugging output;
.I debug
is a single digit, larger for more output.
.ig
.PP
For example,
the shell
.I Uutry
starts
.I uucico
with debugging turned on.
..
.PP
.I Uusched
invokes
.I uucico
for each system
with work pending.
It is called by
.IR uucp
and
.IR uux (1)
after work is queued,
and should be invoked regularly by
.IR cron (8).
The options are
.TP \w'\f5-s\ \fIsystem\ 'u
.BI -x " debug
As for
.I uucico.
.TP
.BI -u " debug
Invoke
.I uucico
with option
.B -x
.I debug.
.PP
.I Kick
invokes
.I uucico
in the background
to call out to the specified
.IR system .
.I Debug
causes a call with
a moderate amount
of debugging output
.RB ( -x4 ).
Both attempt to remove
existing system status information
for
.IR system ,
so that a call will be attempted
regardless of recent failures.
.PP
.I Uuxqt
executes commands requested remotely by
.IR uux (1).
It searches the
.I uucp
spool directories looking for
filenames starting with
.BR X. ,
checks the
.I Permissions
file to see that all required data files are available
and accessible
and that the requested command is permitted for the
requesting system,
and invokes the command if all is well.
.PP
Before a command is invoked,
the file creation mask
.RI ( umask (2))
is set to 0 and these
environment variables are set:
.TF UU_MACHINE
.TP
.B UU_MACHINE
the name of the last sending machine
.TP
.B UU_USER
the user that sent the job
.TP
.B PATH
set to
.LR /bin:/usr/bin
.TP
.B USER
set to
.L uucp 
.PD
.SH FILES
.TF /usr/lib/uucp/Maxuuscheds
.TP
.F /usr/lib/uucp/Systems*
.TP
.F /usr/lib/uucp/Permissions
.TP
.F /usr/lib/uucp/Devices
.TP
.F /usr/lib/uucp/Maxuuscheds
how many copies of
.I uusched
may be active at once
.TP
.F /usr/lib/uucp/Maxuuxqts
ditto for
.I uuxqt
.TP
.F /usr/spool/uucp/*
.TP
.F /usr/spool/uucppublic/*
.TP
.F /usr/spool/uucp/LCK*
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR uucp (1), 
.IR uux (1),
.IR uustat (1)
.br
D. A. Nowitz,
`UUCP Administration',
this manual, Volume 2
.SH BUGS
System and user names received by
.I uuxqt
should not be believed.
