.TH ARFF 8
.SH NAME
arff \- read RT11 files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arff
[ key ] [ name ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Arff
saves and restores files
from an RT11 volume,
such as the VAX console floppy or tape.
Its actions are controlled by the
.I key
argument.
The
.I key
is a string of characters containing
at most one function letter and possibly
one or more function modifiers.
Other arguments to the command are file
names specifying which files are to be dumped or restored.
.PP
RT11 filenames must be chosen from
the character set
.BR a-z0-9. .
Unix filenames are trimmed to the last pathname element;
upper-case letters are folded to lower-case.
.PP
The 
.I key
must include one of the following letters:
.TP
.B  r
The named files
are replaced where found in the RT11 volume, or added taking up
the minimal possible portion of the first empty spot.
.TP
.B  x
The named files are extracted from the RT11 volume.
.TP
.B  d
The named files are deleted from the volume.
The resulting empty spots are coalesced where possible.
.TP
.B  t
A table of contents for the RT11 volume is printed.
If filenames are given,
they are echoed if found.
.PP
The following modifiers may be added to the
.IR key :
.TP
.B  v
Normally
.I arff
does its work silently.
The
.B v
(verbose)
option causes it to type the name of each file it treats
preceded by the function letter.
With the
.B t
function,
.B v
gives more information about the
file than just the name.
.TP
.B f
causes 
.I arff
to use the next argument as the name of the archive instead
of
.IR /dev/floppy . 
.TP
.B m
causes
.I arff
not to use the mapping algorithm employed in interleaving sectors
around a floppy disk.  In conjunction with the 
.B f
option it may be
used for extracting files from
non-floppy sources,
such as the VAX-11/750 console cassette.
.SH FILES
/dev/floppy
.SH AUTHORS
Keith Sklower, Richard Tuck
.SH BUGS
Floppy errors are handled ungracefully.
.br
The program is too floppy-dependent.
Mapping belongs in the device driver,
or at least shouldn't be the default.
