.TH INEWS 8
.SH NAME
inews \- submit news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B inews
[
.B \-h
]
.B \-t
title [
.B \-n 
newsgroup ... ] [
.B \-e 
expiration ]
.PP
.B inews \-p
[ file ]
.PP
.B inews \-C
newsgroup
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Inews
submits netnews articles.
It is not intended for people; see
.IR postnews (1)
for routine use.
The first form is for submitting articles;
the second for receiving articles from other machines;
the third for creating newsgroups.
.PP
In the first form, the article is read from the standard input.
A
.I title
must be specified, one or more
.I newsgroups 
(default `general')
may be specified, and a nonstandard 
.I expiration 
date may be specified.
Option
.B \-f
substitutes another sender's name instead of the user.
Option
.B \-h
specifies that headers are present at the beginning of the
article and should be included with the article
header instead of as text.
.PP
The sender's full name is taken from the environment variable NAME,
or from the system index (often 
.IR passwd (5)).
The environment variable ORGANIZATION overrides the system default.
.PP
In the second form
.I inews
reads the article from the named
.I file.
.PP
The third form is for creating new newsgroups.
This may
be limited to specific users such as the super-user or news administrator.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'/usr/spool/news/newsgroup/article_no  'u
/usr/spool/news/.sys.nnn
temporary articles
.TP 
.RI /usr/spool/news/ newsgroup / article_no
articles
.TP 
/usr/spool/oldnews/
expired articles
.TP 
/usr/lib/news/active
known newsgroups and highest article number in each
.TP 
/usr/lib/news/seq
sequence number of last article
.TP 
/usr/lib/news/history
list of all articles ever seen
.TP 
/usr/lib/news/sys
system subscription list
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
news(5),
newsrc(5),
postnews(1),
readnews(1),
recnews(8),
sendnews(8)
uurec(8)
