.TH MMT 1
.SH NAME
mmt, mvt \- typeset documents, view graphs, and slides
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mmt
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B mvt
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
These two commands are very similar to
.IR mm (1),
except that they both typeset their input via
.IR troff (1),
as opposed to formatting it via
.IR nroff (1);
.I mmt\^
uses
the
.SM MM
macro package,
while
.I mvt\^
uses the
Macro Package for
View Graphs and Slides.
These two commands have options to specify
preprocessing by
.IR tbl (1)
and/or
.IR eqn (1).
The proper pipelines and the
required arguments and flags for
.IR troff (1)
and
for
the macro packages
are generated, depending on the options selected.
.PP
.I Options\^
are given below.
Any other arguments or flags (e.g.,
.BR \-rC3 )
are passed
to
.IR troff (1)
or to
the macro package,
as appropriate.
Such options can occur in any order,
but they must appear before the
.I files\^
arguments.
If no arguments are given,
these commands
print a list of their options.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B \-e
Causes
these commands
to invoke
.IR eqn (1);
also causes
.I eqn
to read the
.B /usr/pub/eqnchar
file (see
.IR eqnchar (7)).
.TP
.B \-t
Causes
these commands
to invoke
.IR tbl (1).
.TP
.B \-Tst
Directs the output to the
.SM MH STARE
facility.
.TP
.B \-Tvp
Directs the output to a Versatec printer via the
.IR vpr (1)
spooler;
this option is not available at all
.SM UNIX
sites.
.TP
.B \-T4014
Directs the output to a Tektronix 4014 terminal via the
.IR tc (1)
filter.
.TP
.B \-Ttek
Same as
.BR \-T4014 .
.TP
.B \-a
Invokes the
.B \-a
option of
.IR troff (1).
.TP
.B \-y
Causes
.I mmt\^
to use the non-compacted version of the macros (see
.IR mm (7)).
No effect for
.IR mvt .
.PD
.PP
These commands read the standard input
when
.B \-
is specified
instead of any file names.
.PP
.I Mvt\^
is just a link to
.I mmt\^.
.SH HINT
Use the
.BI \-o list\^
option of
.IR troff (1)
to specify ranges of pages to be output.
Note, however, that these commands, if invoked with
one or more of the
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-t ,
and
.B \-
options,
.I together\^
with the
.BI \-o list\^
option of
.IR troff (1)
may cause a harmless ``broken pipe'' diagnostic
if the last page of the document is not specified in
.IR list .
.SH SEE ALSO
.tr ~
.PD 0
env(1), eqn(1), mm(1), tbl(1), tc(1), troff(1), profile(5),
environ(7), mm(7), mv(7).
.PP
.I "\s-1MM\s+1\-Memorandum Macros\^"
by D.~W. Smith and J.~R. Mashey.
.PP
.I "Typing Documents with \s-1MM\s+1\^"
by D.~W. Smith and E.~M. Piskorik.
.PP
.I "A Macro Package for View Graphs and Slides\^"
by T.~A. Dolotta and D.~W. Smith (in preparation).
.PD
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.tr ~~
``m[mv]t: \|no input file''\| if
none of the arguments is a readable file and
the command
is not used as a filter.
