.TH prtxfont 5G "WH" MARX
.SH NAME
prtxfont \- character sets for prtx
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
A font file describes for each character the dots that \fIprtx\fR 
should use to construct that character.
Any character not described in the file is treated as a blank.
Only characters 0 through 127 are allowed.
.P
The first line of a file contains an integer NR giving the number
of rows of dots in each character.
.P
Except for the first each line contains a character designator
followed by the description of that character.  
The character designator is either the character itself or
"\n" where n is the octal representation of the character.  
.P
A character description consists of NR strings. Each string
consisting of some number of "dot descriptions", and separated
from the preceding string or the character designator by spaces.
Conceptually a character is formed by placing the strings on 
top of each, left aligned, with the first on top.  For normal
size characters each dot description corresponds to a potentially
printed dot.  For larger characters each description corresponds
to several dots and indicates a pattern for the dots.
.P
The possible dot descriptions are:
.TP 10
1
Fill in the entire area.  This is the only description that causes a
dot to be printed at the normal size.
.TP 10
0
Leave the entire area blank
.TP 10
a
Fill in the upper right hand corner
.TP 10
b
Fill in the lower right hand corner
.TP 10
c
Fill in the lower left hand corner
.TP 10
d
Fill in the upper left hand corner
.TP 10
A
Fill in the the area but leave a wedge blank on the left hand side.
The descriptions with omitted wedges are useful for constructing 
pointed characters.  E.g. 'A' might be used at the right hand part
of a '>'
.TP
B
Fill in the area but leave a wedge blank at the top.
.TP
C
Fill in the area but leave a wedge blank at the right.
.TP
D
Fill in the area but leave a wedge blank at the bottom.
.SH AUTHOR
Jerry Schwarz (harpo!jerry)
