.TH prtx 1G "WH" MARX
.SH NAME
prtx \- graphics mode output filter for matrix printers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10 
prtx [ -\fBi\fR p ]  [ -\fBo\fR device ] [ -\fBn\fR font ] 
[ -\fBw\fR width ] [ -\fBOcxf\fR ] files
.HP 10
prtx [ -\fBi\fR t ]  [ -\fBo\fR device ] [ -\fBn\fR font ] 
[ -\fBw\fR width ] [ -\fBOcxf\fR ] [ -\fBs\fR charsize ] files 
.HP 10
prtx [ -\fBi\fR g ]  [ -\fBo\fR device ] 
[ -\fBn\fR font ] [ -\fBOcxuf\fR ] [ -\fBr\fR region ] files 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.I prtx
reads commands from the specified files and constructs pictures.
printronix matrix printer.
If no files are specified it reads from the standard input.
The file name "-" also specifies the standard input.
.P
The options are: 
.TP 5
-\fBo\fR device
Output appropriate for the designated device.
Currently supported devices are:
.RS 10 
.TP 5
prtx
A printronix matrix printer.  This is the default assumed if
the -\fBi\fR option is omitted.
.TP 5
hrprtx
High resolution printronix.  Some printronix printers have
twice the horizontal resolution of the standard printer.
This option produces output for such printers.
.TP 5
tty
Any ascii terminal. The output in this mode is crude and  
it is intented only for previewing command files whose output
is ultimately intended for another device.
.TP 5
trilog.  A trilog color printer.
.RE

.TP
-\fBi\fR format
This option specifies the format of the command file.  The 
possible values are:
.RS 10
.TP 5
\fBprtx\fR
"Prtx" format.  
Ascii commands suitable for hand
construction described in \fIprtx\fR(5). 
(This is the default format.)
.TP 5
\fBtplot\fR
"Tplot" format.  Commands usually given to \fItplot\fR(1)  
as described in \fIplot\fR(5).  The -\fBs\fR option specifies
the size of characters as an integer 
multiple of the normal height.
(The default is 1.)
.TP 5
\fBtroff\fR
"troff" format.  Output from \fInewtroff\fR.
.TP 5
\fBgps\fR
\fIGps\fR(5) format. Normally used for display on Tektronix
terminals.  Produced by the \fIstat\fR(1) commands. 
The -\fBr\fR and -\fBu\fR options are as for \fIged\fR(1).
.RE 
.TP 12
-\fBn\fR font
\fIFont\fR is a file that describes an alternate character set.
If it starts with a '/' it is interpreted as a full path
name. If it starts with './' it is relative to the current
directory. 
Otherwise it is relative to the font library.
If this option is omitted "\fIDEVICE\fR.font" is assumed. Where
\fIDEVICE\fR is the -\fBo\fR option.
.TP 12
-\fBw\fR width
\fIWidth\fR is the width (in inches) of the paper.
It is a floating point number.
It overrides the default width for the device.
.TP 5
-\fBO\fR
Overlays all files into one picture.
(Normally each file goes on a separate page.)

.TP 5
-\fBx\fR
Exchange rows and columns.  That is, turn picture on its side.

.TP 5
-\fBc\fR
Let output continue vertically across page boundaries.
This permits pictures of any height to be drawn.

.TP 5
-\fBf\fR
Fit the output the to a page.  
I.e. rescale the locations of points so that the picture fits
exactly on the page.  The  original picture may have been
bigger or smaller than a page.  

.SH EXAMPLES
Typical use is: 
.sp
prtx <sample | lpr -uk -o 
.sp
The "-o" is necessary so that lpr doesn't complain about
unprintable characters.
Another example is 
.sp
graph <numbers | prtx -t | lpr -uk -o 

.SH SEE ALSO
.I prtx(5), prtxfont(5), graphics(1), graph(1), plot(5), gps(5). 
.SH FILES
The font library is /usr/marx/lib.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Many diagnostics are printed on the standard error output.
In general an attempt is made to continue.
.SH BUGS
.P
The 
.I boxit
prefix cannot always determine the boundary of the prefixed 
command.
.P
This command is a descendant of one that only produced output
for the printronix, hence its name.
.P
The printronix, and trilog are slow devices in graphics mode.
.P
Small narrow ellipses do not work.
.P
Large input files can result in very poor performance because
of a problem with \fImalloc\fR.
.P
The "a" (arc) command for troff input is not yet implemented.
.P
Many characters expected by troff users are not in the current 
font.
.SH AUTHOR
Jerry Schwarz (harpo!jerry)
