.TH STAT 2
.CT 2 file_inq_creat
.SH NAME
stat, lstat, fstat \(mi get file status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.PP
.B int stat(name, buf)
.B char *name;
.B struct stat *buf;
.PP
.B int lstat(name, buf)
.B char *name;
.B struct stat *buf;
.PP
.B int fstat(fildes, buf)
.B struct stat *buf;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Stat
puts detailed information about the file
.I name
in a structure whose address is
.IR buf .
.I Lstat
does the same except that when
.I name
is a symbolic
link (see
.IR link (2)),
it
supplies information about the link itself.
.I Fstat
does what
.I stat
does for the file open on descriptor
.IR fildes .
.PP
It is unnecessary to have any
permissions at all with respect to
.IR name ,
but all directories
leading to the file must be searchable.
.nf
.ta \w'\fLnnnnnnnn\fP'u +\w'\fLunsigned short st_mode; \fP'u
\fLstruct stat
{
	\fLdev_t st_dev;\fR	device number for this file system
	\fLino_t st_ino;\fP	inode number
	\fLunsigned short st_mode;\fP	file mode encoded as below
	\fLshort st_nlink;\fP	number of links (not symbolic links)
	\fLshort st_uid;\fP	uid of owner
	\fLshort st_gid;\fP	gid of owner
	\fLdev_t st_rdev;\fP	if device file, the device number
	\fLoff_t st_size;\fP	size in bytes
	\fLtime_t st_atime;\fP	time file was last read or created
	\fLtime_t st_mtime;\fP	time file was last written or created
	\fLtime_t st_ctime;\fP	time file or inode was last written or created
\fL};\fP
.fi
.PP
The bits in
.B st_mode
are defined by
.nf
.ft L
.ta 10n 20n
.ft P
\fLS_IFMT	0170000\fP	file type
\fLS_IFDIR	0040000\fP	directory
\fLS_IFCHR	0020000\fP	character device
\fLS_IFBLK	0060000\fP	block device
\fLS_IFREG	0100000\fP	regular file
\fLS_IFLNK	0120000\fP	symbolic link
\fLS_ISUID	0004000\fP	set userid on execution
\fLS_ISGID	0002000\fP	set groupid on execution
\fLS_ICCTYP	0007000\fP	type of concurrency control
\fLS_ISYNC	0001000\fP	1 writer and n readers (synchronized access)
\fLS_IEXCL	0003000\fP	1 writer or n readers (exclusive access)
\fL	0000400\fP	read permission by owner
\fL	0000200\fP	write permission by owner
\fL	0000100\fP	execute permission (search on directory) by owner
\fL	0000070\fP	read, write, execute (search) by group
\fL	0000007\fP	read, write, execute (search) by others
.fi
.PP
.B S_IFMT
and
.B S_ICCTYP
are field masks; the other constants encode modes.
Codes contained in the 
.B S_IFMT
field are mutually exclusive.
If bit
.L 01000
is set,
the concurrency modes contained in
.B S_ICCTYP
are in effect;
otherwise the set-id flags
.B S_ISUID
and
.B S_ISGID
apply.
.PP
The concurrency modes affect
.I open
and
.I creat
calls.
Synchronized access,
.BI S_ISYNC ,
guards against inconsistent updates
by forbidding concurrent opens for writing.
Exclusive access,
.BI S_IEXCL ,
guards against inconsistent views
by forbidding concurrent opens if one is for writing.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR chmod (1), 
.IR ls (1), 
.IR chmod (2), 
.IR filsys (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IR stat ,
.IR lstat :
.BR EACCES ,
.BR EFAULT ,
.BR EIO ,
.BR ELOOP ,
.BR ENOENT ,
.BR ENOTDIR
.br
.IR fstat :
.BR EBADF ,
.BR EFAULT ,
.BR EIO
.SH BUGS
For efficiency,
.B st_atime
is not set when a directory
is searched, although this might be more logical.
